3
2026 VSiN COLLEGE FOOTBALL BETTING GUIDE
Greetings, everyone!
Welcome to the 2026 VSiN College Football Betting Guide! This is the most important Guide 
that we put out because it is so hard to follow the college football offseason and we have 
previews for all 138 FBS teams to help you prepare for the season ahead.
To say that this is a team effort is an understatement, so before I explain more about what’s in 
this year’s edition, I’d like to thank Senior Editor Zachary Cohen, Editor Michael Dolan, Guide 
Designer Matt Devine, and everybody on our creative and marketing teams. We also had a 
ton of host participation in terms of best bets and heartfelt thanks go out to all of those who 
submitted picks and predictions.
Special thanks to these fantastic writers for the best preseason content you are going to find 
anywhere:
 
•	
Matt Youmans’ Top 50 and Pac-12 Previews
•	
Zachary Cohen’s Heisman Trophy Overview and Big 12 Previews
•	
Jonathan Von Tobel’s Mountain West and SEC Previews
•	
Wes Reynolds’ Big Ten Previews
•	
Adam Burke’s Home-Field Advantage Values, New Head Coach Profiles, American, ACC, 
Conference USA, Independents, MAC, and Sun Belt Previews
•	
Frequent guest Paul Stone’s Top 15 Quarterbacks
 
And, of course, our VSiN Analytics Guru Steve Makinen, who has provided his Favorite Season 
Win Total Bets, Power Ratings Projections, and Stats and Ratings for all of the teams.
You can find VSiN on SiriusXM Channel 158, on the VSiN Watch App, on YouTube TV as part 
of the Sports+ package, on our YouTube page, on radio affiliates and regional sports networks 
across the country, wherever you get your podcast content, and through VSiN.com.
Keep an eye out this month for our 2026 Average 
Joe Betting Contest, which gives contestants the 
option to pick college football games alongside 
the NFL to win some cool prizes. It’s free to play 
and just one more perk of being a member of the 
VSiN audience.
Thank you for your support and good luck this 
college football season!
Adam Burke
Managing Editor, VSiN.com
aburke@vsin.com
@SkatingTripods on X
