5
2026 VSiN COLLEGE FOOTBALL BETTING GUIDE
VSIN
college
football 
best 
bets
DAVE ROSS
VIRGINIA TECH OVER 6.5 WINS (-140) &
ALT OVER 7.5 WINS (+120
I’m going with the silver-bullet approach: one shot. Firing on 
all Virginia Tech futures. Over 6.5 at -140 and adjusted Over 7.5 
at +120.
I love their chances this year to really compete in year one 
under James Franklin. The funny thing is, he was in the CFP 
semis two years ago and then ran out of Happy Valley for 
Blacksburg. One man’s trash is another man’s treasure. He’ll 
thrive in Hokieland, and keeping Brent Pry as the DC is the 
hidden gem. One of the best, if not the biggest, winners in the 
portal. Don’t be surprised if they find themselves in Charlotte 
playing for an ACC title this year. I won’t be.
MATT YOUMANS
FRESNO STATE OVER 6.5 WINS (-120)
Matt Entz coached North Dakota State to two FCS national 
championships in five years and compiled a 60-11 record. Last 
year, he took over a losing Fresno team and produced a 9-4 
finish. That team was limited by mediocre quarterback play, 
and Entz brought in Maryland transfer Khristian Martin, a 
dual-threat playmaker. Four of the top five pass catchers are 
returning, including leading receiver Josiah Freeman. Three 
of the top offensive linemen in the Pac-12 pave the way for 
experienced running backs Bryson Donelson and Rayshon 
Luke. The Bulldogs host Boise State on Oct. 10 in what could 
be the most important matchup of Pac-12 play. Entz coached 
Fresno, a 17-point underdog, to a 30-7 win at Boise last year. 
After a trip to USC in early September, Fresno has a realistic 
shot to reel off three consecutive wins against Sacramento State, 
San Jose State and Rice. Circa Sports posted 6.5 with the league’s 
12th flex game included in the win total.
MICHIGAN UNDER 8.5 WINS (-160)
The Big Ten is loaded again this season — starting with 
Ohio State, Oregon and Indiana — and the Wolverines have 
been losing ground. The fallout from the Jim Harbaugh era 
ended with the firing of Sherrone Moore, who led a clumsy 
coaching staff that failed to develop freshman quarterback 
Bryce Underwood. The talent level is down and the schedule’s 
degree of difficulty is up. Michigan will play the Buckeyes and 
Ducks on the road and host Indiana, Iowa, Penn State and 
Oklahoma. The hiring of veteran coach Kyle Whittingham is 
a huge positive, but almost everything would need to go right 
for the Wolverines to win nine games, and it’s more likely 
Whittingham will go 7-5. The price is getting high (-160 or 
more), but pay it.
DAVE TULEY
TEXAS TO WIN SEC (+295) &
NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP (+700)
Longtime readers of my Tuley’s Takes columns, especially in 
horse racing, know I am not deterred when a bet on a team 
(or horse) comes up short, as I’d rather be too early on a team/
horse peaking than too late. Last year, I bet Texas to win the 
CFB Playoff and obviously came up short as QB Arch Manning 
didn’t reach his well-bred potential as early as I was hoping, 
The Longhorns had a disappointing season but showed signs 
of competence, and I’m hoping that I was just a year too early 
(similar to me betting the Detroit Lions to win this season’s 
Super Bowl after losing with them last year). Texas is the 
second-betting choice in the SEC behind Georgia, and obviously 
we’re hoping they win the conference on the way to the CFB 
Playoff and natty.
