6
2026 VSiN COLLEGE FOOTBALL BETTING GUIDE
INDIANA TO WIN BIG TEN (+245)
Also last year, I wasn’t a believer in Indiana for most of the season, but 
fortunately grabbed the Hoosiers at +330 to win the College Football 
Playoff in the VSiN Bowl Betting Guide and rode them to the title. 
Obviously they lost Heisman Trophy winner Fernando Mendoza as the 
NFL’s No. 1 overall draft pick, but coach Curt Cignetti has to be given his 
due for one of the biggest turnarounds in not only CFB but sports history 
with the Indiana football program, and I’m confident he’ll have them in 
the running again. It looks like a three-horse race in the Big Ten between 
Indiana, Ohio State and Oregon, so +245 is a fair price. And I might also 
take a shot at the Hoosiers to repeat as national champions, as it feels 
like they’re being overlooked at just short of 13-1.
TOLEDO TO WIN MAC (+365)
As an alumnus of Northern Illinois (class of 1988), I’ve been a longtime 
fan of the Mid-American Conference. I have mixed feelings about the 
Huskies moving to the Mountain West Conference this season, as I’ll be 
able to go to their games at UNLV every other year but will miss watching 
them in the MAC. But I’m still a MAC fan and see this as another three-
horse race with Toledo, Western Michigan and Miami-Ohio. Toledo has a 
new coach in Mike Jacobs, who has won everywhere he’s been, including 
two straight SoCon titles at Mercer. And Toledo is used to rebuilding 
after losing coaches, as happens with mid-majors, and competing every 
year. Running back CJ Miller and WR Adjatay Dabbs come from Mercer 
with Jacobs to help whoever wins the QB job.
AARON MOORE
TEXAS TO WIN NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP (+700) 
Sign me up as a follower of the Arch Manning Redemption Tour. The 
prized QB at the start of last season was far from being someone who 
could lead his team to a national championship. The version at the tail 
end of last year was a lot closer to doing so. Besides more experience for 
Manning and leading WR Ryan Wingo, Texas added another downfield 
threat with Auburn transfer Cam Coleman. The offense will be there, 
and Will Muschamp on the sidelines should help the defense. After the 
Big Ten flexed its muscles with a national championship the past three 
seasons, the 7-1 on the Longhorns is a good buy-low scenario for what 
should be one of the two best teams in the SEC.
CLEMSON UNDER 5.5 CONFERENCE WINS (-150)
The ACC schedule makers didn’t do Dabo Swinney any favors as he looks 
to lift the Tigers back into contention. Sure, Clemson is warming up to 
the transfer portal, but the odd migration patterns of the ACC will make it 
hard for Clemson to secure six conference wins. A mid-September flight to 
Berkeley comes in between home games against North Carolina and Miami. 
The end of their season features three of their last four games on the road.
SMU TO REACH ACC CHAMPIONSHIP GAME (+200) 
If veteran QB Kevin Jennings can lead his team to at least one win during 
SMU’s first two conference games of the season (at Florida State and at 
Louisville), the Mustangs will be set up nicely for the remainder of ACC 
play. There should be plenty of October and November ACC wins for the 
Mustangs. The finale in Palo Alto comes on the heels of a trip to South 
Bend, but it is hard now to envision Stanford being a roadblock to a 
championship game appearance.
STEVE MAKINEN
TEXAS TO MAKE COLLEGE FOOTBALL PLAYOFF (-200) 
Over the last two springs, the Texas staff has brought in the No. 1 and 
No. 3 ranked recruit/transfer classes in the country according to 247 
Sports. To me, that means this locker room is probably the most talented 
in the country this season. Now naturally, that talent has to be cultured 
on the field, but head coach Steve Sarkisian has proven he can do that, 
taking the Longhorns to the CFP title game two years ago. Last year, to 
me, was an unrealistic set of expectations for this team, as the pressure 
on Texas and QB Arch Manning was palpable every time they took the 
field. The fact that the Longhorns still won 10 games despite a 5-7-1 ATS 
record shows just how much even the experts behind the bookmaking 
counter thought of this group. This team won its final three games of ’25 
after some of that pressure was lifted, and Manning exploded in those 
contests. The offense put up 456 yards in the bowl win over Michigan. 
That is the momentum they will be carrying into 2026. The fact that this 
program plays the toughest schedule in the nation this year, according 
to my numbers, is relevant to a degree, but in my opinion, it is Texas’ 
opponents who are drawing the short straw here. I don’t see a team with 
this much talent losing more than a couple of games, in which case a 
playoff berth will be a lock.
 
BOISE STATE TO MAKE COLLEGE FOOTBALL PLAYOFF (+450)
Last year, two Group of Five teams made the CFP despite losing game(s) 
in the regular season. This year, I expect that total to be one. To me, 
the most likely candidate is Boise State, which moves over to the newly 
formed Pac-12. When I ran my updated power ratings versus the 2026 
schedule, the Broncos’ +1.7 difference was one of the biggest I’ve ever 
had. I think the oddsmakers are giving a bit too much credit to the 
strength of the new conference, where BSU is the clear favorite. QB 
Maddux Madsen returns as a senior, and HC Spencer Danielson is in his 
fourth year with the program. The opener at Oregon is the only likely 
loss I see on the ’26 slate. By the time it’s all said and done in December, 
I believe this team will have the strongest resume of the non-P4 teams.
UNLV TO MAKE MOUNTAIN WEST CONFERENCE TITLE GAME (+110)
I have gone through the UNLV schedule for ’26, which is minus nemesis 
Boise State this year after the Broncos left for the Pac-12, and I am 
struggling to find even a single game where the Runnin’ Rebels will not be 
expected to win or at least be extremely competitive. With the meteoric rise 
New Mexico made last year, the Runnin’ Rebels’ Mountain West consistency 
in recent years makes them the favorite in the MWC this season. Including 
Auburn transfer QB Jackson Arnold, UNLV head coach Dan Mullen has 
brought in highly respected recruiting classes to carry on the momentum of 
30-12 over the past three years. Mullen has been able to bring in numerous 
P4 transfers, which should have the Runnin’ Rebels in the hunt for MWC 
titles year in and year out for the near future. Running this team’s power 
rating against the 2026 schedule produced a 9-3 record, 6.2-1.8 in league 
play. I think +110 to reach the MWC title game is a gift of a line.
TYLER SHOEMAKER
ARKANSAS UNDER 4.5 WINS (-170) 
TSI projects just 4.3 wins for the Razorbacks this year, but when you 
comb through the schedule and look at the win probabilities in a 
vacuum, there are only two games in which they have a > 60% win 
probability, but 10 (!) games in which the win probability is < 40%, with 
zero games falling in the middle as “coin flips.” So, it’s going to take them 
way overachieving relative to expectation in three games, plus winning 
the two they’re supposed to, in order for this bet to lose.
SOUTHERN MISS UNDER 3.5 WINS (+105) 
I think a lot of credit is being given to Southern Miss by some models 
(FPI) based on what they did last year, but head coach Charles Huff 
is now at Memphis, and the Golden Eagles are undergoing another 
turnover for the second straight season. I think there’s going to be a 
major step back, with TSI projecting 3.3 wins, and only one game with 
a win probability > 60%. In fact, they’ve got 10 games where their win 
probability is < 40%, with just one coin-flip game. So, for this bet to lose, 
they have to win the one they’re supposed to win, plus the coin flip, plus 
two more that they’re sizable underdogs in. 
PAUL STONE
TEXAS TECH TO WIN BIG 12 CHAMPIONSHIP GAME (-105) 
With the Brendan Sorsby saga now (mostly) behind them, the Texas 
Tech Red Raiders can shift their focus to defending their Big 12 
championship. Quarterback is clearly the Red Raiders’ biggest question, 
but all indications are that starter Will Hammond will be ready for the 
Sept. 5 opener against Abilene Christian after suffering a torn ACL in his 
right knee last October. The former four-star recruit is not a greenhorn 
by any stretch after starting the 2024 Liberty Bowl against Arkansas and 
then two games last season in relief of an injured Behren Morton. With 
a healthy Hammond under center, Tech projects to be a double-digit 
favorite in all 12 of its regular-season games. I like the Red Raiders to 
repeat as conference champions at the short price.  
