7
BYU +3 VS. UTAH (GAME OF THE YEAR - NOV. 7)
Long-time Utah defensive coordinator Morgan Scalley 
is now a first-time head coach there, while BYU’s Kalani 
Sitake, who worked with Scalley for almost a decade in 
Salt Lake City, is entering his 11th season as the Cougars’ 
head man. On top of the perceived coaching edge, I believe BYU has 
the superior roster. Sophomore quarterback Bear Bachmeier was 
a pleasant surprise as a true freshman, and senior LJ Martin (1,305 
yards rushing in 2025) is one of the nation’s most underappreciated 
backs. Meanwhile, Utah has questions on both the offensive and 
defensive lines. BYU is 23-4 straight up over the last two seasons. I like 
the Cougars to go into Salt Lake City and come away with the outright 
victory in “The Holy War.”
NORTH TEXAS UNDER 5.5 WINS (+100)
Last season, North Texas won 12 games and finished in a three-way 
tie for first place in the American Conference before falling to Tulane, 
34-21, in the league title game. However, former head coach Eric 
Morris and many of that team’s key pieces have migrated northward to 
Stillwater, Oklahoma, where they will suit up for the Oklahoma State 
Cowboys in 2026. Returning just eight percent of their total snaps from 
one season ago, it’s difficult to envision the Mean Green breaking even 
in Neal Brown’s first season. North Texas opens with games against 
Indiana, UNLV and Texas State and could lose all three. Brown may 
ultimately find success in Denton, but I believe the revamped Mean 
Green are in for a tough opening act.
PAULY HOWARD
NORTH DAKOTA STATE UNDER 9.5 WINS (-200)
I’m shocked that they are the third choice to win the league and have this 
high of a win total after making the move to the Mountain West. People 
are trashing the league with all the teams that have left, but 10-2 is a big 
ask.
PENN STATE OVER 8.5 WINS (-150) 
I’m not a fan of Matt Campbell, but the schedule is a joke. He brings all 
of his players from Iowa State and doesn’t have to face Oregon, Ohio 
State or Indiana. 
OKLAHOMA STATE OVER 5.5 WINS (-180)
Drew Mestemaker is ready for the NFL, and he has a great story just 
getting on the field at North Texas. Eric Morris had a good team last 
year, and he took all of his players with him. I like the coach and the 
quarterback, and only need six wins.
NORTH TEXAS UNDER 6.5 WINS (-200)
They return zero starters with Morris leaving town. The Mean Green are 
also in a tough league, making this a work in progress.
JENSEN LEWIS
PARLAY: NOTRE DAME, OHIO STATE,
TEXAS TO MAKE COLLEGE FOOTBALL PLAYOFF (+115) 
Set it and forget it. Barring some ridiculousness that will 
catastrophically affect many other futures bets on these three 
programs, I’m getting the top teams entering this regular season to 
“do their job” and make the College Football Playoff. The Buckeyes 
return elite talent in Heisman hopefuls Jeremiah Smith and Julian 
Sayin, giving Ryan Day a chance at an even better overall team than 
last season’s group. Their team win total Over 9.5 is also a solid 
foundational future to invest in. Marcus Freeman and the Fighting 
Irish remaining independent and not facing a potential SEC/Big Ten 
conference gauntlet gives the team an incredible advantage in the 
expanded CFP era. Their talent and depth are as good as any team 
entering this season. The Longhorns spent gobs of NIL money to 
bolster both sides of the ball, giving Steve Sarkisian potentially his 
best chance at a national title since taking the job in Austin. It does 
mean more in the SEC, and it feels like the Horns are leaving no stone 
unturned in 2026.
Bear Bachmeier
