8
2026 VSiN COLLEGE FOOTBALL BETTING GUIDE
LSU TO MAKE COLLEGE FOOTBALL PLAYOFF (+160) 
Lane Kiffin’s arrival in Baton Rouge is arguably the most 
compelling storyline entering this season, not only in the 
SEC, but in college football. An overhauled roster through 
the transfer portal, paired with significant NIL investments, 
augments the attractiveness of this future bet. Year 1 of Kiffin usually 
translates to drastic improvement, especially on offense. Quarterback 
Sam Leavitt will run a high-octane attack, complete with fresh wideout 
transfers: big-play threats Jayce Brown (Kansas State) and Jackson Harris 
(Hawaii) headline the group, alongside speed demon Winnie Watkins, who 
followed Kiffin from Ole Miss. The schedule is favorable, considering the 
Tigers will avoid Georgia, so they’ll need to take advantage of winnable 
early conference matchups before a gauntlet in November (Alabama, Texas, 
Tennessee). Nine wins feels incredibly viable and enough in the expanded 
playoff system. Count the Tigers as chaos candidates in this year’s CFP!
ZACHARY COHEN
I wrote up the Big 12 for this guide, so you’ll see some predictions from 
me there. However, the only win totals I actually took in the conference 
were Arizona State Over 6.5 (-110 - 3 units), BYU Over 8.5 (-134 - 3 units), 
Houston Over 7.5 (-155 - 3 units), and UCF Over 5.5 (-140 - 3 units). I 
also took all four of the candidates I mentioned in my Heisman Trophy 
column: Darian Mensah (12-1), John Mateer (25-1 - 0.5 units), Marcel 
Reed (30-1 - 0.5 units), and Drew Mestemaker (75-1 - 0.25 units). 
The rest of my futures are as follows: 
LSU OVER 8.5 WINS (-104 - 3 UNITS) &
TO MAKE COLLEGE FOOTBALL PLAYOFF (+240) 
The Tigers have some very tough games on the schedule, but they’ll play 
Clemson, Texas A&M, Alabama, and Texas in Death Valley. If they simply 
split those four games, they should be looking at a 9-3 season — and 
there’s a decent chance they go 3-1 in those contests. LSU will no longer 
be weighed down by the poor coaching of Brian Kelly. Lane Kiffin is in 
the building, meaning the Tigers have one of the brightest offensive 
minds leading the program. Kiffin also brought along Charlie Weis Jr., a 
great offensive coordinator, and was able to keep Blake Baker, one of the 
nation’s top defensive coordinators.
This is going to be a very well-coached team, and the talent is undeniable. 
Kiffin was active in the transfer portal, scooping up stars for nearly every 
position group. However, it’s the offense that should make this season 
special. Arizona State transfer Sam Leavitt should be a star under center 
in Kiffin’s offense, and he has several weapons at his disposal in Florida 
transfer Eugene Wilson and Hawaii transfer Jackson Harris — in addition 
to talented Ole Miss transfer Winston Watkins. Kiffin also has a good 
group of running backs, and he really beefed up his offensive line.
MICHIGAN OVER 8.5 WINS (+140 - 1.5 UNITS) 
Michigan has home games against Oklahoma, Iowa, Penn State, and 
Indiana, and going 3-1 in those contests will be necessary, with the 
Wolverines facing Oregon and Ohio State on the road. At plus-money 
odds, I’ll take my chances with Michigan accomplishing that feat.
Kyle Whittingham has always been one of the coaches I trust the 
most, and I think he did a good job of quickly retooling this roster. 
Whittingham was able to keep seven offensive starters from last year’s 
Wolverines squad, and Jason Beck, a brilliant play-caller, will get his 
crack at coaching them. Beck should be able to turn Bryce Underwood 
into one of the most feared signal-callers in college football.
Michigan is also loaded on defense. The Wolverines were able to keep 
defensive backs Jyaire Hill and Zeke Berry, and Whittingham could 
also have a star in defensive lineman Enow Etta. On top of that, John 
Henry Daley and Smith Snowden, two absolute studs, transferred in 
from Utah.
This team is big, physical, and talented, so nine wins should be 
expected, even with things in Ann Arbor having taken a strange turn 
since the 2023 championship.
WISCONSIN OVER 6.5 WINS (+100 - 3 UNITS) &
ALT OVER 7.5 WINS (+230) 
This is undoubtedly a bit of a homer pick, and it’s one I believe I’ve lost 
every year since I started working for VSiN. However, this is where we 
list the futures we have for the upcoming college football season, and 
these are two of mine.
Things have been miserable since Luke Fickell took over the Wisconsin 
program, but they were trending in the wrong direction long before he 
was hired. The Badgers were getting smoked by the Big Ten’s elite teams, 
and the program’s recruiting was in the toilet. Fickell has at least turned 
around the latter, which is part of the reason why the 2026 team is as 
talented as it is. He also has some NIL money to work with now, which 
should help address the team’s competitiveness when facing superior 
programs.
This year, Wisconsin doesn’t play many of the big brands. The 
toughest games on the schedule feature the Badgers facing Notre 
Dame (in Green Bay), Penn State (road), USC (home), and Iowa 
(road). Outside of those four games, Wisconsin should be able to win 
at a high clip, and I’d expect the Badgers to win at least one of the 
daunting matchups.
The reality is that Fickell has been just as unlucky as he has been bad. 
His quarterback rooms have been decimated by injuries since he 
arrived in Madison. If the team can keep Old Dominion transfer Colton 
Joseph healthy, the Badgers will have a dynamic dual-threat playmaker 
under center. They’ll also have a much-improved offensive line, and the 
defense is absolutely loaded — with Fickell having done great work to 
keep Mason Posa and Cooper Catalano around.
Things should start trending in the right direction for Wisconsin this 
year, and eight wins should be the goal.
Lane Kiffin
