9
BYU TO MAKE COLLEGE FOOTBALL PLAYOFF (+330) 
BYU is an Over team for me when looking at regular-season win totals 
(8.5), but I’m not stopping there. The Cougars have some tough games 
on the schedule, including road games against TCU and Utah and a 
home game against Notre Dame. But those games also give BYU a shot at 
picking up the kind of wins the committee wanted to see last year.
This team should be extremely productive on both sides of the ball. On 
offense, LJ Martin, one of the nation’s top running backs, is back to work 
behind a tremendous offensive line. Bear Bachmeier should also make 
significant strides as a passer in Year 2 under center. On the other side of 
the ball, the Cougars have seven starters back from last year. They also 
added Cal transfer linebacker Cade Uluave, who has the potential to turn 
this defense into a top-10 unit in the nation.
Kalani Sitake has done remarkable things since taking over his alma 
mater, but the best is yet to come. This BYU team has been knocking on 
the door of a College Football Playoff appearance, and this feels like a 
year in which the Cougars will kick it off its hinges.
BEN STEVENS
NEW MEXICO TO WIN THE MOUNTAIN WEST (+265)
If you don’t know the name Jason Eck by now, you will soon. 
Eck led the Lobos to nine wins in 2025, the most by a New 
Mexico head coach in his first year in program history. And 
from that history-making team, 14 starters return for the 
2026 campaign, including QB Jack Layne. In fact, 63% of the Lobos’ 
production from last season is back in Albuquerque this year, which 
is the second-most among Group of Six programs and the most in the 
Mountain West. In today’s climate of college football, to have that sort 
of buy-in across your program is saying something. And in the newly 
reshaped Mountain West, the Lobos have both UNLV (the favorites) and 
NDSU (the third-best price) at home, where New Mexico was a perfect 
6-0 in 2025. Invest early in Albuquerque.
UCLA OVER 6.5 WINS (+110)
If there are 1,000 Bob Chesney believers, I am one. If there are 100 
Bob Chesney believers, I am one. If there is only one Bob Chesney 
believer, it is me. If there are zero Bob Chesney believers, I have 
perished from this Earth. So yes, I think UCLA’s new head man is 
going to continue the winning ways he has at every previous stop, 
at every level of college football, in Westwood from the very start. 
Everybody in CFB is clamoring for the next Curt Cignetti. To me, 
Cignetti is the anomaly, not the standard. But if you wanted a coach 
to follow in that archetype, it is Chesney. In 16 years as a CFB head 
coach, from D-III to the FBS level, he has a .717 win percentage with 
eight conference titles to boot. And after leading JMU to the CFP last 
season, I think Chesney will continue to prove his acclaim in the 
Big Ten. There are 42 newcomers to the Bruins in 2026, 10 of them 
following Chesney from James Madison, including All-American 
Wayne Knight (RB/all-purpose returner) and Sahir West (EDGE and 
Sun Belt Freshman of the Year). QB Nico Iamaleava returns under the 
new staff, and I’m betting on him to take a stride this season. UCLA’s 
schedule is also quite manageable, playing only three of the six teams 
that have a win total of 8.5 or better, and facing three of the five 
teams with a win total of 5.5 or lower.
KENTUCKY OVER 4.5 WINS (-148)
When asked at SEC Media Days why he believes he can win in Lexington, 
new head coach Will Stein responded, “Because of me, honestly.” And I 
trust Stein. The Wildcats are investing in this football program, as seen 
in the portal class entering this new season. Notre Dame transfer Kenny 
Minchey steps in at the QB spot, and if you’ve seen what Stein has done 
for the college careers of Bo Nix, Dillon Gabriel, and Dante Moore, I 
have little doubt he will elevate Minchey as well. The Cats also added 
some nice pieces at the skill positions in CJ Baxter (RB, Texas), Jovantae 
Barnes (RB, Oklahoma, Nic Anderson (WR, LSU), etc. Faring well against 
Kentucky’s schedule is going to be no easy task, but such is life in the 
SEC. The Wildcats have notable home games against Alabama, LSU, 
Vandy, Florida, and in-state rival Louisville this season, and I would not 
be stunned if Stein guides UK to a win in two or three of those games to 
get us Over this win total comfortably.
Jack Layne
