10
2026 VSiN COLLEGE FOOTBALL BETTING GUIDE
DUSTIN SWEDELSON
DARIAN MENSAH TO WIN THE HEISMAN TROPHY (16-1)
We have reached a point in the new landscape of college football where 
we know which programs handle the transfer portal best. Maybe no 
team has been better at finding QBs in the portal and maximizing 
their abilities than the Miami Hurricanes. When Cam Ward arrived 
in Coral Gables two seasons ago, he had averaged 3,484 passing yards 
and 24 passing touchdowns at Washington State over two seasons. He 
then transformed into a Heisman Trophy finalist and eventual No. 1 
overall draft pick by throwing for over 4,300 yards and 39 touchdowns. 
In 2025, Carson Beck transferred from Georgia. Beck finished 
with a career high 30 touchdowns and led Miami to the National 
Championship Game. Now enters Darian Mensah, fresh off 3,900-plus 
passing yards and 34 touchdowns, while leading Duke to the 2025 ACC 
Championship. If he gets the bump that his predecessors received 
in their one year playing in offensive coordinator Shannon Dawson’s 
offense, then he will be in New York for the Heisman ceremony at 
the end of the year. How does he get there aside from scheme? Well, 
throwing to sophomore superstar WR Malachi Toney certainly helps. 
Toney led the nation in receptions and the ACC in receiving yards 
and receiving touchdowns last year. He is capable of taking short 
passes a long way, which will not only boost Mensah’s stats but also 
open up opportunities for others in the offense. That’s where Cooper 
Barkate comes in. Barkate was with Mensah at Duke last season after 
previously playing at Harvard. He quickly became Mensah’s go-to 
target, finishing with 72 catches, 1,106 yards and seven TDs. They 
already have chemistry and, combined with Toney, could form the best 
QB-plus-two-WR combination in the nation. The Hurricanes also added 
WR transfer Cam Vaughn, who had 800 yards and five TDs two seasons 
ago at Jacksonville State, and former South Carolina WR Vandrevius 
Jacobs, who was productive with 548 yards and four touchdowns a 
season ago. Factor in the Miami defense lost some major pieces to the 
NFL, which could result in more shootouts and gaudy stats for Mensah. 
This number is also just too long for the QB of the largest favorite to 
win a Power Four league.
KENTUCKY OVER 4.5 WINS (-150)
There is a lot to like here, even with the challenges of Kentucky being 
a basketball school. The Wildcats scored 17 points or fewer six times in 
2025 and still found five wins on the schedule. If the offense can improve 
a little, they should be able to at least maintain five wins and get over 
this total. That’s why they turned to Will Stein. While Stein has never 
been a head coach before, he did guide an Oregon offense the last three 
seasons that turned Bo Nix into a first-round pick, Dillon Gabriel into a 
third-round pick, and took Dante Moore from UCLA cast-off to potential 
top-five draft pick. His latest QB project is Kenny Minchey. Minchey 
didn’t see a lot of action at Notre Dame, but he battled current Heisman 
Trophy favorite CJ Carr down the stretch for the starting job a year ago. 
Multiple beat reporters appeared on VSiN and thought Minchey had the 
clear leg up in the competition. Whether those practices in South Bend, 
Indiana, translate to game results in Lexington, Kentucky, remains to be 
seen, but it does let us know the talent the Wildcats have under center 
this year. Stein is making sure he has big targets to throw to, bringing 
in big-body transfers at WR. LSU transfer Nic Anderson (6’4”, 205 lbs.) 
had almost 800 yards and 10 TDs at Oklahoma in 2023, Southern Utah 
transfer Shane Carr (6’2”, 185 lbs.) went for over 1,300 yards and 10 TDs 
over the last two seasons, plus Arkansas transfer Ja’Kayden Ferguson 
(6’2”, 184 lbs.) and UAB transfer Xavier Daisy (6’3”, 212 lbs.) join the fold 
as well. The run game gets a huge upside boost from former Texas RB 
CJ Baxter, who missed all of 2024 with an injury. And most importantly, 
they rebuilt this offensive line with four-star transfers in Tennessee OT 
Lance Heard, Ohio State OG Tegra Tshabola, and Baylor center Coleton 
Price. The defense brings in plenty of talent from all over, but the reason 
I bet this is the improved offense. If they reach their potential, they 
could even get to six wins this year.
NC STATE OVER 7.5 WINS (+105)
Dave Doeren enters Year 16 at NC State, where he has only failed to get 
to eight wins one time since 2020. It may not be pretty, and it may not 
excite you, but Doeren wins football games. The offense that scored 30.2 
points per game a year ago lost some juice with Hollywood Smothers 
and its five leading pass catchers leaving. But QB CJ Bailey returns for 
his third season and his second under offensive coordinator Kurt Roper. 
It’s shocking Bailey stayed in Raleigh; he could have made a lot of money 
in the portal after throwing for 3,105 yards, 31 total TDs and nine INTs. 
His return is why this team can get to eight wins. He is a special player 
and should have some help via the transfer portal. WR Davion Dozier 
comes in from App State, where he had 448 yards and five TDs in eight 
games last year. The Wolfpack also added two underutilized Miami WR 
transfers in JoJo Trader and Chance Robinson. While 5’8” Victor Snow 
might be the most interesting, as he is coming off 815 yards and eight 
TDs at Buffalo. LT Jimarion McCrimon, who joins from East Carolina, 
was a massive addition. But most notably, the defense, which allowed 
the second-most explosive plays in the ACC, has been upgraded with 
five potential starters. Edge Harvey Dyson led the American with eight 
sacks a year ago. LBs Raul Aguirre (Miami) and Da’Karri Nelson (Penn 
State) could make big impacts. And the secondary adds Georgia CB 
Ondre Evans and Penn State safety King Mack (58 tackles, 3 passes 
defended) to go with second-year starting CB Brian Nelson. Even if they 
lose the opener at Virginia, which feels like a coin-flip game, Richmond, 
Appalachian State, Wake Forest, Stanford, Florida State and North 
Carolina all feel like wins. So we would need just two more wins from 
going to Virginia, at Vanderbilt, vs. Cal, vs. Duke and vs. Syracuse. That 
feels very doable.
ARKANSAS UNDER 4.5 WINS (-166)
Ryan Silverfield was a weird hire for Arkansas. It felt like he did less 
with more in the American Conference and was somehow rewarded. 
Well, congratulations, Ryan. You’re an SEC head coach, with possibly the 
fewest resources, and in your first year you have a top-five most difficult 
schedule. Week 2 at Utah is followed a week later by Georgia. Tulsa on 
September 26th feels like a win, but it’s a dreaded lookahead spot with 
a trip to Texas A&M looming the following week. They finish with a 
brutal run starting on Halloween with Missouri at home, at an improved 
Auburn squad, vs. South Carolina, at Texas and vs. LSU. I don’t see four 
wins, let alone five. It looks like, at best, wins are vs. North Alabama, 
Tulsa and maybe at Vanderbilt. Whichever QB the Razorbacks choose 
will lack experience. AJ Hill played in two games for Memphis last year, 
going 19 for 32, 223 passing yards, one TD and one INT. KJ Jackson saw 
action in five games for Arkansas, completing 33 of 54 passes for 441 
yards and three TDs. Expect this team to keep the ball on the ground 
with a deep stable of RBs: Braylen Russell is a bruiser, Sutton Smith ran 
for 669 yards and seven TDs at Memphis, and Jasper Parker was a four-
star recruit at Michigan. Former Boise five-star Chris Marshall went for 
30 catches, 574 yards and two TDs last season, but can they get 
him the ball consistently? They brought in some big transfers 
to fix a defense that was 129th in scoring a year ago, but this 
doesn’t seem like a team built to play from behind. And I expect 
them to be behind a lot this year with that schedule.
Braylen Russell
