11
2026 VSiN COLLEGE FOOTBALL BETTING GUIDE
HOUSTON OVER 8.5 WINS (+130)
I hate going back to the same team two years in a row in this guide, 
but they cashed last year going 10-3, and I like their chances this year. 
QB Connor Weigman returns for his senior season after throwing for 
2,705 yards, 36 total touchdowns and nine interceptions. Weigman 
returns to the same OC, Slade Nagle, for the first time in his career. 
The Cougars added former Tulane RB Makhi Hughes, who couldn’t 
crack the rotation in Oregon last year despite a 2024 in which he ran 
for 1,400 yards and had 17 total touchdowns. Another huge transfer 
was UTSA TE Patrick Overmyer, who will fill the void left by Tanner 
Koziol. Overmyer will get plenty of looks in this Houston offense. 
Oregon State transfer WR Trent Walker compiled over 1,700 yards the 
last two seasons in Beaverton. Plus, Amare Thomas is back coming off 
966 yards and 12 TDs a year ago. The Cougars are relying on the portal 
to fill holes on defense. But the secondary will anchor this group with 
All-Big 12 CB Will James back. Former Stephen F. Austin safety Javion 
White had 50 tackles in 2025. While Oregon DE transfer Ashton Porter, 
Oklahoma State DE De’Marion Thomas and Ole Miss LB Jaden Yates 
came to Houston to get more playing time. If Fritz and DC Austin 
Armstrong can bring this team together, not only do I like Over 8.5 
wins, but I think 16-1 to win a wide-open Big 12 could be interesting 
as well.
MITCH MOSS
TEXAS TECH TO WIN BIG 12 CHAMPIONSHIP (+100)
I usually don’t bet conference winners this far out at even money, but 
I couldn’t resist this year with the Red Raiders. The team lived up to 
the transfer-portal-paying-hype last year by clobbering 11 opponents 
by 20+ points. The 2024 version was loaded to the gills and lost a lot 
of talent, but reloading the six-shooters is a way of life in the state of 
Texas. 
Two notes to consider: 
From the Pick Six Previews magazine: your average Big 12 team has 
averaged two four-star transfers over the past two recruiting periods. 
Texas Tech inked 20. The team avoids playing BYU and Utah in the 
regular season, and their most difficult conference opponents are all at 
home. 
Professional bettor Brad Powers told Follow The Money on April 28th, 
2026: “I downgraded them three points because I thought there would 
be some regression. Then, with the Sorsby news, I downgraded them 
another 3.5 points. So about a full touchdown downgrade since last 
year’s team, and I still have Texas Tech favored in every single game — 
per my power ratings — by double-digits. That’s how easy of a schedule 
Texas Tech has.” 
OLE MISS OVER 8.5 WINS (+150) &
TO MAKE COLLEGE FOOTBALL PLAYOFF (+220) 
Shop around if you’re high on this team, as the numbers are all over 
the map. There is a ton to like about the 2026 version of Ole Miss 
despite losing Lane Kiffin as head coach. If you only watched games 
last year and paid attention to nothing else, QB Trinidad Chambliss 
popped as the best or second-best player in the country, along with 
Fernando Mendoza. I don’t care about his age, nor does being a 
Division II transfer mean anything to me. The kid plays the position 
at an extremely high level and is back to lead what will once again 
be a high-powered machine on offense. Playing with a chip on their 
shoulder was evident after Kiffin bailed on the team, and I expect that 
to be a theme this season as well. However, momentum isn’t really 
a thing, especially from one season to the next. What will be a real 
carryover is the overall firepower on offense along with Chambliss. 
RB Kewan Lacy was first-team All-SEC and rushed for 1,567 yards and 
scored 24 TDs. The team lost playmaking WRs on offense, but loaded 
up once again via the portal. The same is true on defense. Kiffin 
poached key players on that unit to tag along to LSU, but Ole Miss 
signed eight four-star transfers on that side of the ball. I loved what I 
watched with the Rebels last season, and am betting on it to continue 
this year.
ADAM BURKE
GEORGIA SOUTHERN OVER 3.5 CONFERENCE WINS (-115)
The Eagles will take some lumps early in the season with non-
conference tilts against Clemson and Houston, but those could help in 
the long run with a very manageable conference schedule. Two of their 
Sun Belt road games are quite winnable - Coastal Carolina and Georgia 
State - and I also expect them to put up terrific passing numbers with 
multi-time transfer Max Johnson in a pass-happy scheme. That could 
help them with a home upset of James Madison or a road dub over Old 
Dominion, which would certainly lock this in. Even if they don’t get 
either of those, I have them favored five times in conference play and 
therefore think this one can get there.
APPALACHIAN STATE TO WIN SUN BELT (18-1)
Even though my pick in our chart was Old Dominion, the 18-1 
price tag here is worthy of a dart throw. Dowell Loggains, who was 
the OC at South Carolina in 2023-24, including LaNorris Sellers’ 
spectacular redshirt freshman season in ‘24 with 674 rushing yards 
(4.1 YPC) and 2,534 passing yards (18/7 TD/INT ratio), now has 
more dual-threat options in Boone than he previously had. When 
Loggains took over at App State, Sellers saw a drop of nearly 5% in 
his completion percentage, threw for fewer yards, and only had 1.8 
YPC. While Loggains wasn’t the only loss for the Gamecocks, I do 
think it’s a fair illustration how much better the App State offense 
can be this season with more mobile QBs and a faster tempo. Old 
Dominion and James Madison, the two top teams in the East, play at 
App State and the Mountaineers avoid Louisiana and Troy, the two 
top teams in the West.
OREGON TO REACH BIG TEN CHAMPIONSHIP GAME (+100)
DraftKings had Ohio State and Indiana as odds-on prices to make it to 
the Big Ten title game as of the Tuesday before the CFB Guide came 
out. Per my numbers, Oregon is an underdog once (at Ohio State) 
and -5.5 or higher in every other Big Ten game. They avoid Indiana, 
host Michigan and Washington, and I think they have to win one 
of the two main road games, USC and Ohio State, to get there. The 
Buckeyes and Hoosiers both feel vulnerable given their significant 
losses on both sides of the ball. Ohio State under OC Arthur Smith is 
worrisome, given that they’ll likely squander their talent advantage 
again and play slowly, which makes them more beatable.  Dan 
Lanning in big games is a worry, but I don’t think the Week 10 game 
against Ohio State is unattainable. The common opponents between 
Oregon and Indiana, who do not play each other, are USC, Nebraska, 
Northwestern, Ohio State, Michigan, and Washington. Oregon has 
four of those games at home, including Michigan and Washington, 
two places the Hoosiers have to go, and even Nebraska if the 
Cornhuskers wind up being any good.
SEAN GREEN
JARON-KEAWE SAGAPOLUTELE TO WIN HEISMAN TROPHY (65-1)
The lefty from Hawaii is going into Year 2 as the starting QB at Cal, and 
the sky is the limit. He threw for 3,454 passing yards and 18 TDs as a 
freshman while taking them to a 7-6 record. JKS showed off in some 
late-season big-game wins for Cal when they upset SMU and Louisville, 
while throwing for 653 yards in those games. If he can elevate this Cal 
team above its seven-win season last year, he’ll be in the mix for the 
Heisman.
AIR FORCE TO WIN MOUNTAIN WEST (+550)
Air Force is returning 14 starters, and this is one of Troy Calhoun’s 
better teams in years. Calhoun has never had a losing season three 
years in a row, so I expect the Falcons to turn things around in a big 
way. Their QB Liam Szarka is the perfect fit for the Air Force style 
of attack, as he’s a great dual-threat QB. In Szarka’s starts, Air Force 
averaged 39 PPG, and with some small improvements this Air Force 
team will be flying high.
