12
WES REYNOLDS
PENN STATE TO MAKE
COLLEGE FOOTBALL PLAYOFF (+450)
Last year, Penn State had College Football Playoff and 
championship aspirations. Then, they lost in 2OT at home in 
the big showdown with Oregon, and that started a six-game losing streak, 
and James Franklin was fired after consecutive losses as over 20-point 
favorites at UCLA and vs. Northwestern. The Nittany Lions rallied under 
interim coach Terry Smith, still on staff as assistant head coach, to make 
and win a bowl game.
Enter Matt Campbell and 24 transfers (seven offensive starters and four 
defensive starters) from Iowa State. Call it Curt Cignetti and James Madison to 
Indiana from two years ago on steroids. Campbell led Cyclones football to its 
best decade in program history with seven bowl appearances in 10 seasons. 
All of college football wondered when he was going to make the leap to the 
bigger job, and he finally did when Penn State came calling. Campbell was 
not AD Pat Kraft’s first choice, but he may end up being the right choice.
The core of his Iowa State teams are now wearing dark blue and white in 
Happy Valley. Those teams went 17-7 over the last two seasons, including 
four victories over ranked teams, with QB Rocco Becht not missing a 
start in over three seasons despite playing through a variety of injuries. 
Shoulder surgery kept him out of spring practice except for 7-on-7.
Like Cignetti and the JMU crew from two years ago at Indiana, these 
players and coaches will have a chip on their shoulders to prove they can 
play against the step up in class against tougher competition. Also like that 
group, Penn State is the beneficiary of a highly favorable schedule. Out of 
their 12 games, the Nittany Lions are likely underdogs in only two of them, 
at Michigan and at Washington. They avoid all of the consensus top-three 
Big Ten teams in the regular season: Oregon, Ohio State, and Indiana.
While this is the first year for these Iowa State players in the Big Ten, 
they do have experience playing physical, grinder Big Ten games against 
Iowa in the CyHawk game, where the Cyclones defeated Kirk Ferentz 
and Iowa in three of the last four years.
If the College Football Playoff shakes out like last year, there will be four 
SEC teams, Notre Dame getting in this year, the Big 12 champion, the ACC 
champion, the Group of Six representative, and four Big Ten teams. The 
battle for the likely fourth Big Ten spot should be between Michigan, USC, 
and Penn State. Michigan and USC both have more difficult schedules.
Penn State, unlike last season, gets to also be the beneficiary of lower 
expectations.
We Are!
RUTGERS UNDER 5.5 WINS (-150)
Greg Schiano’s second act at Rutgers in the Big Ten has proven to be 
more difficult than his first act in the Big East. The NIL era has been 
even less kind to the Scarlet Knights, and player retention is certainly 
an issue, as Rutgers needs to make a decision to put more resources into 
the program if they are going to be competitive in the Big Ten.
Rutgers does have two All-Big Ten offensive skill players in RB Antwan 
Raymond and WR KJ Duff. However, they will have a new QB responsible 
for getting them the ball, as “The Greek Rifle” Athan Kaliakmanis has 
graduated. Boston College transfer Dylan Lonergan and returner AJ 
Surace are battling for the starting job. The Scarlet Knights are also 
looking for three new starters on the OL.
Defensively, though, is where Rutgers has been an absolute mess. The 
Scarlet Knights ranked 125th nationally in total defense, which is why 
Travis Johansen was brought in as defensive coordinator after coaching 
South Dakota to the FCS Playoffs last year.
While the non-conference slate is manageable (vs. UMass, at Boston College, 
vs. Howard), Rutgers is likely to be an underdog in every conference game 
except for perhaps the season finale against Michigan State.
Schiano’s teams always fight hard, but the talent, especially on defense, 
is still lacking.
 
Matt Campbell
