13
2026 VSiN COLLEGE FOOTBALL BETTING GUIDE
FRESNO STATE TO WIN PAC-12 (+650)
Fresno State went 9-4 in Matt Entz’s first season in the San 
Joaquin Valley. Entz is used to winning, having brought 
North Dakota State two FCS Championships.
The Bulldogs are still looking for a QB, but have arguably the best running 
attack, and certainly the most returning production with Rayshon Luke 
and Bryson Donelson combining for nearly 1,400 yards last season. Fresno 
has the best lines in the new Pac on both sides of the ball, and they were 
ranked No. 2 nationally in pass defense (only Ohio State ranked higher). In 
this day and age of the portal, it is rare to bring back more than a couple 
of starters, but the Bulldogs have six back on defense. Plus, they get 
conference favorite Boise State at home.
STORMY BUONANTONY
FLORIDA STATE UNDER 6.5 WINS (-160) &
ALT UNDER 5.5 WINS (+155) 
Mike Norvell’s squad went from 60 to 0 real fast. They had 10 wins in 
2022 and 13 in 2023, but ever since missing out on the playoff that year 
with Jordan Travis’ injury, it’s been a mess. Things fell apart with a 2-10 
season 2024, and just when you thought they were poised for a bounce 
back upsetting Alabama and starting 3-0 to open last season, they 
withered away again, losing seven of their last nine games. Since the 
day the CFP field was announced in 2023, FSU has gone 7-18 with a -25 
turnover margin. With that in mind, if I were a head coach on the hot 
seat, I’m not sure Ashton Daniels would be who I’d hitch my wagon to as 
QB1. In his career at Stanford and Auburn, he’s been inconsistent at best 
and erratic and turnover-prone at his worst. While, generally speaking, 
the roster overall should be better this season — they have the 22nd-
best “newcomer class” in the country per ESPN — have you seen their 
schedule? It’s the hardest by far in the ACC. They face SMU right away in 
Week 2, at Alabama in non-conference Week 3, vs. Virginia, at Louisville 
on a short week, at Miami, vs. Clemson, at Pitt, vs. NC State and close 
out the season against Florida. In summation, they face all the tough 
teams in the ACC and a pair of SEC teams out of conference. I could 
easily see this team being discouraged and checked out by October. Six 
wins felt generous to me, and I’m betting it as such.  
PENN STATE OVER 8.5 WINS (-160) &
TO MAKE COLLEGE FOOTBALL PLAYOFF (+425) 
While the Matt Campbell hire feels a little like a consolation prize after 
Penn State’s coaching search largely resulted in its primary targets 
leveraging the job for extensions at their current schools, I still think 
they still landed a solid coach. While he’s not the recruiter James 
Franklin is, Campbell is a great evaluator, developer and the type of 
coach who tends to do more with less. And I don’t know what he did to 
curry favor with the CFB scheduling gods, but they are looking down 
on him for Year 1 at State College. No Ohio State, no Oregon and no 
Indiana on the slate. They face a trio of G5 non-conference opponents in 
Marshall, Temple and Buffalo. Their toughest game on paper is against 
USC on October 10th, but they’ll have a White Out crowd at their back 
and Lincoln Riley’s USC teams have historically struggled on the road. 
While games at Northwestern and Washington aren’t gimmes, none of 
their Big Ten opponents outside of SC have a win total over 7.5. As for 
the roster Campbell will field, he brought over his most trusted soldiers 
from Iowa State, including QB Rocco Becht. His season was derailed 
by injuries last year, but he is back healthy, paired with his former OC 
Taylor Mouser, top WRs Brett Eskildson and Chase Sowell and stud TE 
Ben Brahmer. If Becht stays healthy, I think this is a 10-win team, and if 
they’re winning double-digit games in the Big Ten, it would be hard to 
keep them out of the CFP, so I don’t hate a sprinkle on them getting into 
the 12-team field. 
IOWA OVER 7.5 WINS (-120) 
This was a win total I wrote up in the guide last year that cashed, and 
I’m going back to the well with Kirk Ferentz in Year 28. Iowa hasn’t 
gone a full non-Covid season with fewer than eight wins since 2014, 
averaging 8.7 wins per season over the last 12 years, though two of 
those seasons include bowl wins. I think that continued success 
carries over with one of the more manageable schedules in the Big 
Ten. They’ll have a three-week stretch that’s really challenging early, 
at the Big House, hosting Ohio State and then at Washington, but after 
that, there’s no obvious loss on the schedule, especially considering 
the success they had against some of those conference opponents 
last season. A big part of why I liked Iowa so much last year was I 
thought they finally had a QB, but even with Mark Gronowski coming 
up far short of my expectations, they still won all the games they were 
supposed to, and that’s my thought entering this season. Ferentz says 
the QB competition between Hank Brown and Jeremy Hecklinski 
could go deep into August, but I don’t think either will be much of a 
downgrade from the QB play they got last season. Some may shy away 
from Iowa seeing they are last in the Big Ten in returning production 
on defense, which made Ferentz, who had never had more than nine 
total transfers in a single season, grab eight players from the portal just 
on that side of the ball — but I trust Phil Parker to get the most out of 
those players. The Hawkeyes’ defense in recent history under Parker 
hasn’t ranked lower than sixth in DEF SP+ since 2018. They were ninth 
in the nation in total defense last year, 20th in 2024, seventh in 2023 
and second in 2022. They should be stout again. I have the Iowa trend 
of eight-win seasons paying us out again in 2026. 
Rayshon Luke
