14
NORTH DAKOTA STATE ALT UNDER 8.5 WINS (+145)
Their original win total of 9.5 is an obvious Under in my opinion, but 
for a team I view as an eight-win group, I’d rather get plus-money 
odds on an alternate Under 8.5 than lay upwards of -220 on Under 9.5. 
While I do feel like the championship culture and style of play they’ve 
established for years at the FCS level will translate immediately to the 
new-look Mountain West, the first-year schedule isn’t friendly for a 
program making the jump. They see an old friend in Jacksonville State 
in non-conference play, and it’s among the favorites to win Conference 
USA. They also have to face the top three teams in the league on the 
road at UNLV, at UNM and at Hawaii. They also face the elevation in 
not only Albuquerque but Colorado Springs, with another road trip to 
a potential MW sleeper in Air Force. From a talent standpoint, they 
might have been in a better position making the jump last season 
compared to now, when they’re breaking in a new starting QB (Nathan 
Hayes is a fifth-year senior but a career backup), a new skill group and 
a largely new secondary. They’re always good up front and should be 
again, but there are other teams in the Mountain West that I’m more 
inclined to grab a win-total Over or view as a contender to win the 
conference. 
NEW MEXICO TO MAKE COLLEGE FOOTBALL PLAYOFF (20-1)
This is a perceived value play for me more than anything else based 
on the current state of the Group of Six. While I do give Boise State 
the benefit of the doubt as the top G6 team entering the season, given 
their program history and returning production, it caught me a bit 
off guard to see them so short at 5-1 to make the CFP. I think that the 
G6 spot could be pretty wide open this year. Even in the Mountain 
West, most books have New Mexico and UNLV on the same line, 
pricing-wise, to win the conference and for season win totals, yet 
UNLV is 10-1 to make the CFP compared to UNM at 20-1. Navy and 
UTSA out of the American are 9-1 and 10-1, respectively. The math 
isn’t math-ing for a Lobos team that was one of the best surprise 
teams in college football last year. In Jason Eck’s first year with the 
program, he led New Mexico to a 9-3 mark and brought back more 
production than any other team in the conference. A lot will hinge on 
the health of starting QB Jack Layne, who’s returning from an elbow 
injury, but all reports are that he’s in a great place to start camp. 
Looking at the schedule as well, it appears pretty manageable. Yes, 
they’re at Oklahoma in Week 3 and have a tough road trip to Hawaii, 
but they host UNLV, who they beat in Vegas last year, host Air Force, 
who they beat in Colorado Springs, and host newcomer NDSU. Those 
are potential marquee games that, if won, could put New Mexico at 
10-2 or 11-1 at the end of the year, heading to a MW title game and a 
potential CFP berth. 
OREGON TO REACH BIG TEN TITLE GAME (+100) 
I personally view Oregon as the favorite in the Big Ten, so seeing 
them behind both Ohio State and Indiana just to make the title game 
— and with a plus sign in front of the price — felt like a must-play. 
They avoid Indiana altogether, who appeared to be their Kryptonite 
last season; road trips to USC and Ohio State will be challenging, and 
they do welcome Michigan and Washington to Autzen Stadium, but 
my gut says they don’t lose more than one of those games. Oregon has 
lost a combined five games the last three years. They’re the model of 
consistency, and with the talent they have coming back paired with the 
schedule they face, I’d be pretty shocked if they weren’t playing for the 
Big Ten title in December. 
JONATHAN VON TOBEL
AUBURN OVER 6.5 WINS (-115)
Call me crazy, but I’m buying the USF takeover at Auburn. 
Byrum Brown amassed 4,238 yards both passing and 
rushing and totaled 42 touchdowns last year, and is one of 
the best quarterbacks in the country. He’s got two receivers from USF 
with him in the fold, and defensive coordinator DJ Durkin remains on 
staff. He’s been one of the best defensive play-callers in college football 
over the last three seasons. The Tigers have everything they need to be 
a surprise contender in the SEC.
Byrum Brown
