15
2026 VSiN COLLEGE FOOTBALL BETTING GUIDE
NORTH DAKOTA STATE UNDER 8.5 WINS (+140)
I’m not buying the seamless transition the market is selling with North 
Dakota State. The Bison lost a lot of talent to the portal, including two 
First-Team All-MVFC offensive linemen. The team has just 10 starters 
back and brought in zero starters via the portal. They only bring in three 
Power Four transfers, one of which is a punter from Minnesota. Programs 
at the top of the Mountain West — UNLV and New Mexico — retooled with 
transfer talent from all over the country. The internal promotion and 
development might work in the long run for NDSU, but not this season.
AIR FORCE OVER 7.5 WINS (+120)
Look out, this is going to be one of the surprises of the season. The 
Falcons averaged 29.8 points and 407 yards per game last season. They 
ranked 11th in the country EPA per play and 15th in both EPA per play 
when rushing the football and rushing success rate. Liam Szarka is back 
at quarterback to lead that unit, and the defense should be improved 
with Steve Russ, a former Troy Calhoun staff member, as defensive 
coordinator. Eight or more wins and a potential berth in the Mountain 
West title game are in the cards for the Falcons.
HAWAII TO WIN MOUNTAIN WEST (+600)
Hawaii is one of two teams — Air Force being the other — that could 
absolutely steal the Mountain West from the projected teams at the top. 
The ‘Bows have preseason Mountain West Offensive Player of the Year 
Micah Alejado back. The signal-caller completed 66% of his passes 
for 3,106 yards while tossing 24 touchdowns to nine interceptions last 
season with a bad ankle. Now that he has a season under the belt, and 
is healthy, he and this team will be great. They also get to host New 
Mexico, UNLV and NDSU.
GUNNER STOCKTON TO WIN HEISMAN TROPHY (20-1)
I’m buying ‘Stock’ on the Georgia signal-caller. He was great in the fourth 
quarter last season — he completed 83.6% of his passes for 8.5 yards per 
attempt and totaled nine touchdowns — and now has a season under his 
belt. He leads a title contender and plays in the SEC. The moments will 
be there, and so too will the benefit of the doubt from the voters. Simply 
put: He’s the starting quarterback for a 10-plus win team in the SEC. I’ll 
take my chances.
JOHN MCKECHNIE
MIAMI (FL) TO WIN NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP (11-1)
Roster continuity is overrated in this era, and the elite teams are able to 
reload on the fly by being the best at transfer portal management. The 
‘Canes came up just short of a national title last year, and despite some 
notable losses in the trenches, they might be even better this year. They 
upgraded at quarterback with Darian Mensah coming in from Duke, and 
he’ll have his top target, Cooper Barkate (72/1106/7), joining him. Adding 
that combo to an offense that already has elite line and skill position 
talent like Malachi Toney, and we have something serious cooking in Coral 
Gables. The ACC being this down means that Miami is almost a shoo-in to 
make the dance; the question will center on whether they’re battle-tested 
enough come CFP time. The talent is absolutely there for a title run.
TEXAS A&M UNDER 8.5 WINS (-120)
There’s some regression headed for College Station after things broke 
the Aggies’ way time and again in 2025. Marcel Reed has limitations that 
are hard to fix in one offseason, and he’ll no longer have KC Concepcion 
to bail him out. Mario Craver is fun, but not an engine for a passing 
game. The defense will keep them in games, but the offense will let them 
down in key spots. Games in Baton Rouge, Tuscaloosa and Norman will 
be tough, as will hosting Texas and Tennessee. 
TIM MURRAY
FLORIDA STATE UNDER 6.5 WINS (-175)
Let’s start with the schedule. Florida State plays a pair of SEC teams, at 
Alabama and Florida, including a revenge game against the Crimson 
Tide after the Seminoles beat Alabama 31-17 last year in Week 1. The 
ACC did not do Florida State any favors this year. Of the Seminoles’ 
eight ACC games, FSU will play the top seven teams in the conference 
according to the DraftKings oddsboard: Miami, SMU, Louisville, 
Clemson, Virginia, Pittsburgh, and NC State. 
Thinking back to last year, Florida State reached No. 8 in the AP Poll 
before losing a Friday night game in OT to Virginia. The Noles dropped 
off a cliff and missed a bowl game for a second straight year after going 
13-0 and winning the ACC back in 2023. Florida State could be due for 
some positive regression after losing four one-score games last season, 
but the talent is questionable. Entering 2024, Florida State brought in 23 
transfers, which was rated the sixth-best transfer portal class according 
to 247 Sports. This season, the Seminoles added 23 transfers that ranked 
just 27th nationally according to 247 Sports. Additionally, going from 
Tommy Castellanos to Ashton Daniels, who transferred from Stanford 
and Auburn, is a big drop-off. 
We will know what Florida State has this season on Labor Day Monday 
against SMU. The Noles are a short home underdog against the 
Mustangs. If FSU drops that game, it would not be surprising if the 
season started to spiral quickly and head coach Mike Norvell were fired 
midseason.
GEORGIA TO WIN SEC CHAMPIONSHIP (+310)
There is a lot of hype entering this season surrounding Texas, and 
understandably so. Arch Manning is back, the Longhorns are loaded at 
wide receiver (Ryan Wingo, Cam Coleman, Emmett Mosley), and Texas 
attacked the portal hard (#3 class per 247 Sports). With that said, it seems 
like the two-time defending SEC champion is being slightly overlooked 
entering this year. QB Gunner Stockton is back for another season after 
leading Georgia to a conference championship last year. RB Nate Frazier 
also returns to lead one of the top running back rooms in the country. 
Frazier led the Dawgs with 947 rushing yards and 11 rushing touchdowns 
last year. Per Bill Connelly’s SP+, Georgia is eighth nationally in returning 
production (68%) and No. 5 in returning production on defense. The 
wide receiver room is certainly a question mark entering the year, with 
the departure of Zachariah Branch and TE Oscar Delp, but Georgia Tech 
transfer WR Isiah Canion has the potential to be a breakout star. 
For an SEC schedule, Georgia made out pretty well. The Dawgs avoid 
Texas, LSU, and Texas A&M while hosting Oklahoma in late September. 
Georgia is projected to be a favorite in all 12 games, with road trips to 
Alabama and Ole Miss as the shortest spreads. Georgia will have an 
elite defense this year, and it would be surprising if they are not back in 
Atlanta for the SEC Championship. 
TEXAS TECH TO WIN BIG 12 CHAMPIONSHIP (+100)
The offseason in Lubbock was quite the circus with the Brendan Sorsby 
drama. The day he was ruled ineligible, I bet Texas Tech to win the Big 
12. The Red Raiders have the most talent in the Big 12, and the schedule 
they were handed was a gift. If you take a look at the Big 12 futures 
odds, Texas Tech avoids BYU, Utah, and Kansas State, who are 2-4 on 
the oddsboard, and then hosts the next four teams on the oddsboard 
(Houston, Arizona State, Arizona, TCU). 
Texas Tech has a good chance to be a double-digit favorite in every game 
this season because the talent on their roster is far superior to the rest of 
the Big 12. Brett Ciancia summed it up well in Pick Six Previews: “Over 
the past two cycles, the average Big 12 team has signed two four-star 
transfers. Texas Tech signed 20.” 
Lastly, head coach Joey McGuire has said on multiple occasions that 
he expects QB Will Hammond to be ready for Week 1. Hammond tore 
his ACL last October. If the Red Raiders aren’t playing in the Big 12 
Championship it would be a disastrous season in Lubbock. 
LINCOLN KIENHOLZ TO WIN HEISMAN TROPHY (100-1)
A long-shot Heisman winner has hit the last two years, so why not a 
third? 
Indiana QB Fernando Mendoza was 55-1 to win the Heisman before the 
season last year, and Colorado’s Travis Hunter was 50-1 two years ago. 
Back in 2016, Louisville QB Lamar Jackson entered the season 100-1 to 
win the Heisman. Could another Cardinal QB be primed to bring home 
some hardware in New York City this December? 
Obviously this is quite the long shot, but Lincoln Kienholz is a relatively 
unknown commodity entering the college football season. Kienholz 
was a four-star recruit out of South Dakota back in 2023. After spending 
three seasons at Ohio State, Kienholz transferred to Louisville this 
offseason. Kienholz is a unique athlete, and that is something that could 
be unlocked by Louisville head coach Jeff Brohm. Brohm has always 
thrived with transfer quarterbacks, including Miller Moss, Tyler Shough, 
and Jack Plummer. Kienholz will have an opportunity to announce his 
presence with authority, Nuke LaLoosh style, in a Week 1 showdown 
against Ole Miss on Labor Day Sunday. After Louisville hosts SMU in 
Week 3, we will know if this ticket has some legs or if it is toast. 
