17
2026 VSiN COLLEGE FOOTBALL BETTING GUIDE
Revenge is often an overrated angle, and Notre Dame coach Marcus Freeman is not playing it up. After the Fighting Irish got the cold shoulder from the 
College Football Playoff committee in December, Freeman didn’t complain or look for sympathy. He took accountability, essentially saying his team was 
left out because it left some doubt.
Notre Dame lost its first two games by a total of four points, but those were by far the most important games of its season. In the end, a 10-game win 
streak against a bunch of cupcakes and a couple of fringe ranked teams was not enough to overcome a slow start. That’s why “Leave No Doubt” is 
Freeman’s motto for the Irish this season.
While there is some revenge to exact against Miami, the Irish are focused on the bigger picture and will be playing the role of avengers — an angry 
group seeking to inflict punishment and setting out for retributive justice for the way last year’s team was wronged by the committee and the system.
Of course, Notre Dame is always polarizing, inspiring either love or hate with little middle ground, similar to In-N-Out Burger, LeBron James or a high-
ranking political figure. While some haters will say it was right to exclude the Irish from the playoff, the truth is it was wrong. Oddsmakers know it was 
wrong, and the power rankings showed it.
At the end of last season, Notre Dame was No. 3 in my power rankings, behind only Ohio State and Indiana. A flawed CFP system that included James 
Madison and Tulane also welcomed Southeastern Conference pretenders Oklahoma and Alabama into the 12-team bracket. There is no doubt the Irish 
would have been favored against all four of those teams.
On a neutral field in a playoff game, the Buckeyes might have been the only team favored against the Fighting Irish. How about the Hoosiers? Indiana, 
the 16-0 national champion, has not been defeated since it was a 7-point underdog in a 27-17 loss at Notre Dame in the first round of the 2024 playoff.
That’s a long setup for this announcement: Notre Dame is No. 1 in the VSiN preseason Top 50 for 2026. The decision is not unanimous and the numbers 
show it’s a close call. This poll is a result of power rankings created by me and professional handicapper Paul Stone. After the two sets of rankings 
produced an average number for each team, there were some ties. In this case, I broke the tie and ranked the Irish at the top with Oregon No. 2 and 
Ohio State No. 3.
“My top five are bunched tightly, but when in doubt, go with Ohio State,” said Stone, who ranks the Buckeyes first. “Is there a more complete team than 
Oregon on paper entering the season? I don’t think so. If someone wants to argue that Notre Dame should be the preseason No. 1, I’m not offering much 
resistance.”
“There isn’t much separating the top seven teams,” Fox Sports analyst Chris “The Bear” Fallica said. “One could throw Texas, Georgia, Ohio State, 
Oregon, Indiana, Miami and Notre Dame into a hat and pull them out in any order and I’d probably say, ‘OK, I can buy that.’”
Notre Dame will be favored in all 12 games and likely a double-digit favorite in 10 of those games. Sophomore quarterback CJ Carr, who debuted in a 
27-24 loss at Miami last year, is one of the Heisman Trophy favorites along with Texas quarterback Arch Manning.
“The Irish enter the season with the nation’s top defense, and few would be surprised if Carr leaves Manhattan with the Heisman the second Saturday in 
December,” Stone said.
Notre Dame also has a “kind schedule,” Stone noted, but the schedule is not a factor in my power rating. I favor the Irish over every other team on a 
neutral field, even if it’s by only one or two points against the other teams in the top five. Miami and BYU are the strongest opponents set to face the 
Irish, who open the season against Wisconsin at Lambeau Field.
If you start a power rating simply by grading the coach, quarterback and defense, who rates better than Notre Dame? The Irish return 10 starters on 
defense, Carr matured quickly as a freshman with 24 touchdown passes to six interceptions, and Freeman guided the Irish to the national title game 
after the 2024 season.
In his preview magazine, Phil Steele noted, “This defense is loaded with depth and talent at every level. All nine sets of my power ratings are calling for 
12-0. ND has playoff experience and a great shot at winning it all.”
It can be argued Oregon deserves to be No. 1, and the same goes for Ohio State. The Ducks, who return quarterback Dante Moore and much more, could 
be the fourth different Big Ten team in four years to win it all. The Buckeyes bring back quarterback Julian Sayin and wideout Jeremiah Smith, who has 
163 receptions for 2,558 yards and 27 touchdowns in two seasons, but they lost seven NFL draft picks on the defensive side.
“The Buckeyes have to replace some elite talent in the back two levels of their defense, but they have allowed less than 13 points a game in each of the past 
three seasons, and Jeremiah Smith is arguably the most impactful player in college football,” Stone said. “The Ducks are stacked on both lines and have no 
apparent weaknesses. One of these days (coach) Dan Lanning is going to break through and bring a championship to Eugene. Might this be the year?”
Fallica is hesitant to buy the Longhorns, who have reached the playoff two of the past 
three years and bring back Manning and dominant defensive end Colin Simmons, 
among many others. Everything is bigger with Texas, which is reportedly spending 
$35 million on its player roster and close to $25 million on its coaching staff.
“I think Texas is No. 1 heading into the season based solely on numbers, but factor 
in the schedule and they certainly could go 9-3,” Fallica said. “The Longhorns 
predictably did well in the transfer portal and Manning played at a much higher level 
over the second half of the season.”
The Longhorns went 7-1 to finish last season, with Georgia dealing the loss, 35-10. 
The Bulldogs are a popular pick to win the SEC with a stronger defense and veteran 
quarterback.
My power rankings, combined with Stone’s rankings, form the VSiN preseason Top 50.
PAUL STONE’S
TOP 10
OHIO STATE
OREGON
NOTRE DAME
GEORGIA
TEXAS
MIAMI
INDIANA
LSU
MISSISSIPPI
OKLAHOMA
MATT YOUMANS’
TOP 10
NOTRE DAME
OREGON
GEORGIA
OHIO STATE
TEXAS
INDIANA
MIAMI
LSU
BYU
MISSISSIPPI
