18
2026 VSiN COLLEGE FOOTBALL BETTING GUIDE
1. NOTRE DAME
If sophomore quarterback CJ Carr stays healthy, the Irish should go 
12-0 and claim the top seed in the CFP. Two running backs were drafted 
in the NFL’s first round and both (Jeremiyah Love and Jadarian Price) 
were from Notre Dame, yet that position is still loaded with talent and 
features Aneyas Williams, Kedren Young and Nolan James. The offensive 
line ranks among the nation’s best, and Ohio State transfer Quincy 
Porter boosts the receiving corps. The defense is elite. This team is 
highly motivated and shows no weaknesses.
2. OREGON
Ducks coach Dan Lanning lost his defensive coordinator (Tosh Lupoi, 
California) and offensive coordinator (Will Stein, Kentucky) to head 
coaching jobs, but he doesn’t lose often. Lanning is 48-8 in four years, 
including 17-1 in Big Ten play the past two years. The downside is the 
Ducks were blown out by eventual national champions Ohio State and 
Indiana in playoff games the past two years. Senior quarterback Dante 
Moore will be an early NFL pick, and the defensive front is arguably the 
nation’s strongest.
3. OHIO STATE
The Buckeyes are as good as it gets at the offense’s most important 
positions with quarterback Julian Sayin (77% completions and 32 
touchdowns last season), running back Bo Jackson (1,090 yards) and 
receiver Jeremiah Smith (87 receptions, 1,243 yards and 12 touchdowns). 
The defense must replace a lot of NFL talent, though reloading is seldom 
a problem. The Michigan monkey, meaning a four-game losing streak, 
is finally off coach Ryan Day’s back, but now he’s got a Curt Cignetti 
problem and plays at Indiana in October.
4. GEORGIA
In the so-called ‘year of the quarterback’ in college football, Georgia 
senior Gunner Stockton is often overlooked because he’s not a top NFL 
prospect. But he’s a clutch dual-threat playmaker (24 passing and 10 
rushing touchdowns last season), and leading rusher Nate Frazier also 
returns. Two-time national championship coach Kirby Smart is 40-5 in 
SEC play since 2021. “Georgia’s offense might lack the firepower of some 
of the other contenders, but the Dawgs can run the ball and play sound 
defense,” Stone said.
5. TEXAS
Big checks were written to get Arch Manning more offensive help as 
coach Steve Sarkisian brought in Auburn receiver Cam Coleman and 
NC State running back Hollywood Smothers. Sark also made a sharp 
hire by getting Will Muschamp as defensive coordinator. “Manning 
rebounded nicely last season after stumbling through September,” Stone 
said. “Manning has the top trio of receivers (Coleman, Ryan Wingo 
and Emmett Mosley) in the country, plus his running ability will be 
showcased more this season.”
6. INDIANA
The Hoosiers were No. 16 in these power 
rankings a year ago, so are they underrated 
again? Curt Cignetti, 27-2 in two seasons in 
Bloomington, is a former Nick Saban assistant 
who looks like the new version of him. Top 
overall pick Fernando Mendoza and seven other 
draft picks are gone to the NFL. Cignetti sees 
something in TCU quarterback Josh Hoover (42 
turnovers in 31 career starts). Indiana ranked 
No. 2 in scoring defense (11.7 ppg) but will 
be near the top again despite losing some key 
players.
7. MIAMI
Cignetti got a few scares last season, and one 
came from the Hurricanes in a 27-21 national 
title game. Duke transfer quarterback Darian Mensah could be an 
upgrade from Carson Beck. Mensah benefits from the return of leading 
rusher Mark Fletcher (1,192 yards, 10 touchdowns) and leading receiver 
Malachi Toney (109 catches, 1,211 yards and 10 touchdowns). First-
round draft picks Rueben Bain and Akheem Mesidor will be missed on 
the defensive front. Miami has never won the ACC and coach Mario 
Cristobal’s team is the odds-on favorite (-135).
8. LSU
New coach Lane Kiffin used LSU’s resources to hit the transfer portal and 
the haul was huge. The top quarterbacks (Sam Leavitt, Arizona State; Husan 
Longstreet, USC) are transfers, and so are the three top receivers (Eugene 
Wilson, Florida; Jackson Harris, Hawaii; Winston Watkins, Ole Miss) and 
veteran left tackle Jordan Seaton (Colorado). Senior linebacker Whit Weeks 
and transfer end Princewill Umanmielen (Ole Miss) lead the defense.
9. MISSISSIPPI
Pete Golding won two of three playoff games after taking over for Kiffin, 
and his job as head coach was made much easier when dual-threat 
quarterback Trinidad Chambliss (4,464 total yards and 30 touchdowns) 
was granted an extra year of eligibility and running back Kewan Lacy 
(1,567 rushing yards, 24 TDs) returned. Golding lost two defensive 
starters to LSU, but the defense will be strong. The schedule is brutal, so 
Golding will be tested.
10. OKLAHOMA
Senior quarterback John Mateer had a hot hand to start last season, but 
he never was the same after a hand injury. Expectations are high for 
Mateer, who suddenly resembles a bodybuilder and should put up big 
numbers. Brent Venables is not a great head coach, but he can coach 
defense with the best of them, and the Sooners return senior safety 
Peyton Bowen and several other veterans from the nation’s No. 7 scoring 
defense (15.5 ppg).
11. TEXAS A&M
In two years in College Station, coach Mike Elko has won 19 games. His 
11-2 record last season was a bit of a downer considering the Aggies lost 
their final two games to Texas and Miami. Junior quarterback Marcel 
Reed can look electric at times, but he slumped and put up a total of only 
20 points in the losses to the Longhorns and Hurricanes. It’s not going to 
be easy for Elko to replace 10 players who were NFL picks.
12. TEXAS TECH
This news did not fly under the radar: quarterback Brendan Sorsby, 
a transfer from Cincinnati, departed the program amid a gambling 
controversy. Will Hammond is returning from a knee injury and should 
be fine as the starter when healthy. Red Raiders coach Joey McGuire had 
the money to reload after losing five defensive starters to the NFL. Texas 
Tech is the Big 12 favorite (-105) thanks to a ridiculously soft schedule.
13. BYU
The second choice on the Big 12 odds board is BYU (+550), but coach 
Kalani Sitake does not draw an easy schedule. Back-to-back games 
versus Notre Dame (Oct. 17) and at UCF (Oct. 24) will be pivotal. The 
Cougars are loaded with experience and talent on defense. The offense 
is in good hands with sophomore quarterback Bear Bachmeier (3,033 
passing yards and 15 touchdowns; 527 rushing yards and 11 TDs) and 
star running back LJ Martin.
15. ALABAMA
It was never going to be easy to follow Nick Saban, and Kalen DeBoer 
has made it look difficult. DeBoer is 20-8 in two seasons, which is OK at 
most programs but not in Tuscaloosa. Replacing first-round quarterback 
Ty Simpson will be either Keelon Russell or Austin Mack. There are all 
sorts of questions all over the offensive depth chart. There is plenty of 
talent on defense, but the Crimson Tide will enter the season as a boom-
or-bust mystery team.
14. USC
It’s time for Lincoln Riley to reach the CFP in his fifth year as 
USC coach. Two seniors — quarterback Jayden Maiava (3,711 
passing yards, 24 touchdowns) and running back Waymond 
Jordan — will operate behind one of the nation’s top offensive 
lines. The defensive line is also a strength. Riley pulled in a top-
ranked recruiting class and needs to win now. The Trojans host 
Ohio State, Oregon and Washington and play at Indiana, Penn 
State and Wisconsin. 
“
“
