19
2026 VSiN COLLEGE FOOTBALL BETTING GUIDE
16. WASHINGTON
The Demond Williams saga in January threatened to derail Washington’s 
season before it started. Williams entered the transfer portal for a better 
deal, but the dual-threat quarterback jumped the gun and basically 
was forced to return to Seattle. Williams totaled 3,676 yards and 31 
touchdowns. Third-year coach Jedd Fisch (9-4 last season) should carry 
playoff hopes into November, when the Huskies host Indiana and Penn 
State and finish at Oregon.
17. PENN STATE
Rocco Becht should feel at home in Happy Valley, and that’s because 
the senior quarterback will have more than 20 of his former Iowa State 
teammates with him. Matt Campbell took the Nittany Lions’ coaching 
and took a bunch of Cyclones, including leading rusher Carson Hansen, 
along for the ride. D’Anton Lynn, formerly at USC and UCLA, was a good 
hire as defensive coordinator. The schedule sets up well for Campbell to 
win at least eight games.
19. LOUISVILLE
A year after losing the quarterback competition at Ohio State, Lincoln 
Kienholz will probably help the Cardinals win a lot of games in the 
ACC. Jeff Brohm, who coached Purdue to the Big Ten title game in 
2022 and has a 28-12 record at Louisville, is an overachiever. Leading 
rusher Isaac Brown is back and an experienced offensive line looks 
outstanding. The Cardinals host SMU and Pitt and don’t play Miami 
and Clemson.
20. MICHIGAN
The hiring of Kyle Whittingham, who spent 21 years as Utah’s coach, 
was a home run even if he’s lost something off his fastball. He inherits a 
high-priced quarterback project in sophomore Bryce Underwood, who 
failed to develop under the previous staff. The backup QBs are promising 
if Underwood flops, and leading rusher Jordan Marshall returns. A big 
question mark shadows this Wolverines team, which Stone ranks 15th 
and I rank 28th.
21. IOWA
The Hawkeyes had Indiana on the ropes early last season and blew the 
game, 20-15, in Iowa City. Iowa also let one get away in an 18-16 loss to 
Oregon. Still, the Hawkeyes finished 9-4 with a bowl win as 28th-year 
coach Kirk Ferentz always seems to get to at least eight wins. He lost 
seven NFL draft picks and has to hope Hank Brown, last year’s backup 
quarterback, and running back Kamari Moulton can move the offense.
22. UTAH
Devon Dampier is a dynamic playmaker who passed for 24 touchdowns and 
rushed for 10 last season when the Utes went 11-2. Dampier and leading 
returning rusher Wayshawn Parker will help new coach Morgan Scalley keep 
up Utah’s high standards for winning. Scalley was the defensive coordinator 
for 10 years under Kyle Whittingham. The Utes do have some concerns on 
the offensive and defensive lines for the first time in a long time.
23. HOUSTON
It took only one year for coach Willie Fritz to turn around the Cougars, 
who went from 4-8 in his debut to 10-3 last season. Houston’s offense 
should be high-flying as veteran quarterback Conner Weigman (36 total 
touchdowns, including 25 through the air) comes back and is backed up 
by No. 1-ranked recruit Keisean Henderson. Top receiver Amare Thomas 
(12 TDs) returns. A defense full of veterans appears strong enough to 
survive in the Big 12.
24. CLEMSON
Change with the times or get left behind. Dabo Swinney is finally 
changing by hitting the transfer portal. He also changed offensive 
coordinators and brought back Chad Morris. Christopher Vizzina (and 
maybe freshman Tait Reynolds) replace longtime starting QB Cade 
Klubnik, who was drafted by the Jets. Senior end Will Heldt leads a 
defense that lost five NFL draft picks. Clemson hosts Miami on Oct. 3 
and could contend for the ACC title.
25. SMU
Senior quarterback Kevin Jennings has playoff experience from two 
years ago, and although he slipped some and turned the ball over too 
often last season, hopes are high for the offense (32.2 ppg) with the 
addition of Cal transfer running back Kendrick Raphael. The defense is 
being rebuilt. Rhett Lashlee has been a bet-on coach in ACC play  — the 
Mustangs upset Miami as 10-point underdogs last year — with a 38-16 
record in four years in Dallas.
26. TENNESSEE
Volunteers coach Josh Heupel finds ways 
to create offense and he needs to develop 
highly-touted freshman quarterback Faizon 
Brandon in a hurry. It will help to have 
leading rusher DeSean Bishop (1,076 yards, 
16 touchdowns) in the backfield again. New 
defensive coordinator Jim Knowles, formerly 
at Penn State and Ohio State, will make a 
difference.
27. MISSOURI
The Tigers started 5-0 last season and 
won eight regular-season games prior to a 
disappointing bowl performance. Ahmad 
Hardy (1,649 yards and 16 touchdowns) is the catalyst for the offense 
and arguably the best running back in the SEC. Ole Miss transfer Austin 
Simmons is the new quarterback. One problem is a new-look defense 
that won’t be improved.
28. ARIZONA
With 72 touchdown passes as a three-year starter in Tucson, Noah Fifita 
is one of the Big 12’s best and he gives the Wildcats a shot in almost every 
game. Arizona (9-4) lost three games by six points or fewer last season. 
The Wildcats will get tough tests on the road in September (BYU), 
October (Texas Tech) and November (Kansas State).
29. VIRGINIA TECH
One team’s trash is another team’s treasure. Penn State fans are happy 
to get rid of coach James Franklin after 12 years and Virginia Tech fans 
are thrilled to have him. The Hokies (3-9) will be much improved due to 
Franklin’s ability to recruit talent. “Big Game” James gets a soft launch 
with the toughest road games (Clemson, SMU and Miami) late in the 
season.
30. SOUTH CAROLINA
Overhyped as a top NFL prospect a year ago, quarterback LaNorris 
Sellers slumped as a passer as the Gamecocks slipped from 9-4 to 4-8. 
Sellers totaled 25 touchdowns in 2024 and that number dipped to 18 last 
season. Are you buying or selling? Shane Beamer is coaching a more 
experienced team, but the schedule is brutal and there are concerns in 
Columbia.
31. MINNESOTA
P.J. Fleck is money in bowl games (7-0) as coach of the Golden Gophers, 
and he’s consistent with 8-5 records each of the past two years. He’s got 
a good shot to be a winner again with quarterback Drake Lindsey and 
leading rusher Darius Taylor returning. Senior end Anthony Smith is 
one of the Big Ten’s best defensive players.
32. KANSAS STATE
Bill Snyder, one of the all-time greats, and Chris Klieman, who retired in 
December, are extremely tough coaching acts to follow at K-State. Collin 
Klein, a former Wildcats quarterback and offensive coordinator, takes 
over the top job. Veteran quarterback Avery Johnson and leading rusher 
Joe Jackson return, but multiple holes must be filled on defense.
18. FLORIDA
Jon Sumrall arrives from Tulane as the new coach and should 
be a breath of fresh air in Gainesville after fans suffered through 
the ill-fated “Sun Belt” Billy Napier era. Whether the Gators 
finish in the top half of the SEC will depend on who wins the 
QB job (Georgia Tech transfer Aaron Philo or last year’s backup, 
Tramell Jones) and how well he plays. Leading rusher Jadan 
Baugh (1,170 yards) returns, and the defense should be solid.
“
“
