20
2026 VSiN COLLEGE FOOTBALL BETTING GUIDE
34. VIRGINIA
The Cavaliers cashed in on close-game luck last season by going 3-0 
in overtime games and winning another by two points, so don’t count 
on another 11-win season for coach Tony Elliott. Virginia has two new 
quarterbacks, Beau Pribula (Missouri) and Eli Holstein (Pitt). This 
team looks weaker, but a soft schedule excludes Miami, Clemson and 
Louisville.
35. AUBURN
New coach Alex Golesh, who won 23 games in three years at South 
Florida, has an offensive background and brought senior quarterback 
Byrum Brown with him. While leading rusher Jeremiah Cobb 
comes back, the entire receiving corps is new and includes two USF 
transfers. Junior linebacker Xavier Atkins (team-high 84 tackles, nine 
sacks) leads an inexperienced defense. The Tigers finished 1-7 in SEC 
play last year.
36. BOISE STATE
The Broncos (9-5 last season) won the last three Mountain West 
championships and are +170 favorites to win the eight-team Pac-12. If 
they don’t win the league, a defensive decline will likely be the reason. 
Boise could boast the conference’s top quarterback, Maddux Madsen, 
and top running back, Dylan Riley. Madsen must bounce back after 
regressing last season.
37. GEORGIA TECH
Dual-threat quarterback Haynes King led the Yellow Jackets to nine 
wins and put a scare into Georgia, but he’s gone and replaced by Alberto 
Mendoza. The brother of Heisman Trophy winner Fernando Mendoza 
transferred from Indiana, and running back Justice Haynes transferred 
from Michigan. The defense looks strong. Brent Key has been a bet-on 
coach as an underdog (15-5 ATS).
38. NEBRASKA
UNLV transfer quarterback Anthony Colandrea is the key to coach 
Matt Rhule’s success in his fourth season with the Cornhuskers. 
Colandrea totaled 4,080 yards (3,459 passing and 621 rushing) and 
32 touchdowns for the Rebels. Nebraska (7-6 last season) faces Ohio 
State, Oregon and Indiana but should have enough talent to go 
bowling again.
39. NORTH CAROLINA STATE
Junior quarterback CJ Bailey had offers if he hit the transfer portal, but 
the 6-6, 210-pounder stayed with the Wolfpack. Bailey passed for 3,105 
yards and 25 touchdowns while adding six rushing scores during an 
8-5 season. Leading rusher Hollywood Smothers transferred to Texas, 
but No. 2 rusher Jayden “Duke” Scott is back. Miami is not on the ACC 
schedule.
40. VANDERBILT
Adjusting to life after quarterback Diego Pavia, a Heisman finalist, 
won’t be easy, but the Commodores won’t be bad. Jared Curtis, the 
No. 2-ranked incoming freshman QB, can lean on a pair of seniors 
— running back Sedrick Alexander and wideout Junior Sherrill. 
Vandy coach Clark Lea (10-3 last season) will field another solid 
defense.
41. ARIZONA STATE
Kenny Dillingham has done an amazing 
coaching job at Arizona State. He followed 
a 3-9 debut season with records of 11-3 and 
8-5. His fourth season will probably fall 
somewhere in the middle as in 6-6. With 
quarterback Sam Leavitt transferring to LSU, 
the Sun Devils turn to Kentucky transfer 
Cutter Boley. The defense lost nine starters.
42. PITTSBURGH
As a freshman, Mason Heintschel passed for 
16 touchdowns and showed some running 
ability in his nine starts. Don’t expect to see 
a “Heintschel for Heisman” campaign, but 
he’s got potential and is supported by a veteran offensive line. Panthers 
coach Pat Narduzzi, who’s no game-management genius, will put 
together a decent defense.
43. ILLINOIS
Senior quarterback Katin Houser, a transfer from East Carolina, replaces 
Luke Altmyer in coach Bret Bielema’s run-oriented offense. The top three 
running backs return, but the offensive line is mostly new and won’t be 
improved. It’s a rebuilding year for the Fighting Illini defense. Bielema’s 
team will take steps back after going 9-4 and 10-3 the past two seasons.
44. CALIFORNIA
Tosh Lupoi, the former Oregon defensive coordinator, takes over in 
Berkeley. The Golden Bears lost most of their best defensive players and 
will rely on their offense to lead the way. Sophomore quarterback Jaron-
Keawe Sagapolutele seems to be a rising star after passing for 3,454 yards 
and 18 touchdowns for a 7-6 team.
45. NORTHWESTERN
A 19-19 record does not reflect how well David Braun has coached up the 
Wildcats in his three years. Braun inherited a seemingly hopeless 1-11 team. 
Northwestern’s strength should be its defense, although the coaching staff is 
intriguing with Chip Kelly taking over as offensive coordinator. The new QB 
is likely to be Michigan State transfer Aidan Chiles.
46. OKLAHOMA STATE
Mike Gundy is out after two decades, and new coach Eric Morris brings 
a big offensive reputation with him from North Texas. He’s also bringing 
quarterback Drew Mestemaker, who led the nation in passing yards 
(4,379) last year. The Cowboys (1-11 last season) could be the nation’s 
most improved team.
47. UCLA
The Bruins were bad last season at 3-9, but they did upset Penn State 
42-37 as 24-point underdogs in Pasadena. Bob Chesney, who coached 
James Madison to the CFP, is rebuilding with several transfers and will 
energize the program. Will he be able to rejuvenate inconsistent young 
quarterback Nico Iamaleava?
48. WISCONSIN
There was a lot of excitement in Madison when Luke Fickell was hired 
as coach in 2023, but the thrill is long gone after back-to-back losing 
seasons. The Badgers’ quarterback play was abysmal a year ago, and that 
should change with the addition of dual-threat Old Dominion transfer 
Colton Joseph. Wisconsin’s schedule ranks as the Big Ten’s easiest.
49. BAYLOR
After everything fell apart at Florida, young quarterback DJ Lagway 
transferred to Baylor. Lagway, once hyped as one of the nation’s top 
recruits, can be electric if he’s playing with confidence. He’s replacing 
Sawyer Robertson, who passed for 31 touchdowns last season. Bears 
coach Dave Aranda must improve the defense and win or he’s done in 
Waco.
50. NAVY
After an 11-2 season, with the losses to Notre Dame and North Texas, 
the Midshipmen must replace star quarterback Blake Horvath. Braxton 
Woodson, who’s 6-3 and 215 pounds, will have big shoes to fill. Navy has 
a physical offensive line and a solid defense, but the key to the season 
will be Woodson, who’s fast and skilled but has not played much.
33. TCU
After Indiana swooped in to swipe quarterback Josh Hoover, 
the Horned Frogs looked to the Ivy League for an answer. 
Jaden Craig, a first team all-conference passer at Harvard, will 
run coach Sonny Dykes’ offense. Since getting crushed 65-7 
by Georgia in the 2022 national championship game, TCU 
has posted records of 5-7, 9-4 and 9-4. Dykes destroyed Bill 
Belichick and North Carolina 48-14 in last season’s opener. The 
rematch is in Ireland.
“
“
