22
2026 VSiN COLLEGE FOOTBALL BETTING GUIDE
2026
college football win 
totals I’m betting 
now
After going back through the coaching changes, the Stability Scores, 
the transitional systems, the recruiting rankings, and playing out the 
schedule by my power ratings, I’ve locked in on my team season-win 
total bets that I will be making. You’ll see that based upon the recent 
success I’ve enjoyed, I’ve again opted for more Unders than Overs this 
season.
 
My overall four-year record is now 57-42-2 for 57.6%, highlighted by 34-
17-1 (66.7%) on Unders. I have become much better at identifying teams 
that are due for struggles. Hopefully I can see a clearer picture of which 
teams will improve this year.
14 teams I project to go Over their 
DraftKings season win props
 
BOISE STATE – OVER 7.5 WINS
The Broncos +1.7 difference represents one of the biggest I’ve ever had in 
projecting wins against the schedule using my power ratings, and I even 
double- and triple-checked the numbers to be sure. I think the oddsmakers 
are giving a bit too much credit to the strength of the new Pac-12, and in 
my opinion, BSU is the obvious favorite. QB Maddux Madsen returns as 
a senior, and head coach Spencer Danielson is in his fourth year with the 
program. With the opener at Oregon the only likely loss I see on the 2026 
slate, I think Boise takes the newly formed Pac-12 and exceeds the modest 
win total of 7.5. I’d probably even be willing to bet it up to at least 8.5.
 
FRESNO STATE – OVER 6.5 WINS
Fresno State surprised me last season by exceeding expectations in 
head coach Matt Entz’s first year. Sometimes it takes a coach a bit of 
time to find his footing. In terms of FSU football, Entz did not, as his 
team finished 9-4. He responded to that success by adding an extremely 
improved recruiting class as graded by 247Sports. Considering the 
Bulldogs’ success last year, and now transitioning into the remade Pac-
12, the future looks bright for Entz & Co. With 13 starters back, they also 
qualify for a unique transition system, indicating that of the 141 teams 
over the last five years that brought back at least four starters more than 
the prior season, only 40 got worse. The average improvement of the 
group that didn’t drop off was a winning percentage bump of 15% (+3.2 
wins) and ATS rise of 6.7%.
 
FLORIDA ATLANTIC – OVER 5.5 WINS
Second-year head coach Zach Kittley’s first team at Florida Atlantic 
was, if nothing else, fun to watch. The Owls had the most offensive 
plays per game and the most passing yards per game in the country last 
year. However, they also led the nation in giveaways. Now, with a year 
in the new system under their belt, I see a lot of reasons for potential 
improvement. QB Caden Veltkamp is back for his senior year after 
throwing for over 3,600 yards last season, along with 11 other starters. 
FAU qualifies for three different transition angles as well. 1) Over the last 
five seasons, there have been 18 teams that managed to go .500 or better 
against the spread despite having a -0.8 or worse turnover differential per 
game. Of those teams, only four regressed in the follow-up campaign, 
and the average improvement for the entire group was 8.7% SU while 
winning 1.4 more games on average. 2) In the “there’s nowhere to go but 
up” category, since 2021, there have been 21 teams that have won four or 
fewer games in a season while enduring a -0.8 or worse turnover ratio. 
Only two of those 21 teams regressed. The average win improvement 
for the other 19 teams was 2.3 per season, and the SU win % upgrade 
was 15.3%. 3) Of the 141 teams over the last five years that brought back 
at least four starters more than the prior season, only 40 got worse. The 
average improvement of the group that didn’t drop off was a winning 
percentage bump of 15% (+3.2 wins) and ATS rise of 6.7%. With a lot of 
American Conference teams facing questions this season, I think this has 
the chance to be FAU’s best football year since the Lane Kiffin days.
 
HOUSTON - OVER 8.5 WINS
The move to the Big 12 has helped Houston put together its best five-
year recruiting classes on record. Under head coach Willie Fritz, a new, 
consistent standard is being established. Last season, this team won nine 
games in the regular season and then beat LSU in a thrilling Texas Bowl 
game. QB Conner Weigman, a former A&M transfer, had a huge year for 
the Cougars and is back for his senior season. In all, there are 19 starters 
back, making Houston one of two teams with a Stability Score of 18 on my 
scale, with Notre Dame being the other. It should also be noted that teams 
returning 17+ starters have combined to go 55.7% ATS in the first four 
weeks of the last five college football seasons, meaning this program should 
be able to carry over the momentum of last year’s solid finish. Plus, of the 
141 teams over the last five years that brought back at least four starters 
more than the prior season, only 40 got worse. The average improvement of 
the group that didn’t drop off was a winning percentage bump of 15% (+3.2 
wins) and ATS rise of 6.7%. This should be a big year for Fritz & Co.
 
ILLINOIS – OVER 7.5 WINS
After getting a winner with the Illini last year on their Over win total 
prop, I’m going back to the well in 2026. Fifth-year coach Bret Bielema 
brought in another solid recruiting class this spring, best on record, in 
fact, and it’s clear that this program is reaping the benefits of winning 
on the field. Bielema’s group has won 19 games over the last two seasons 
and has improved from a Big Ten bottom-feeder as far as recruiting is 
concerned to a mid-level destination. To me, it seems obvious that this 
program has turned a corner and is here to stay. They do lose QB Luke 
Altmyer, but replacing him is another former Big Ten starter, Katin 
Houser from Michigan State. There are 11 other starters in place. The 
Illini do face Ohio State and Oregon, but in all honesty, it’s hard to see 
them as a likely loser in any other game.
by Steve Makinen
