23
KANSAS STATE – OVER 7.5 WINS
It came as a bit of a shock for KSU fans when Chris Klieman announced 
his retirement as head football coach in December. He stepped away 
citing personal health and family considerations and did it with the 
Wildcats coming off a 6-6 season, but also with a reasonable amount 
of starting experience coming back. Leading that charge is third-year 
starting QB Avery Johnson. In Klieman’s place steps Collin Klein, 
who gets his first head coaching gig after spending seven seasons in 
Manhattan as an offensive assistant before serving as Texas A&M’s OC 
the last two years. As I look at last season, KSU was so close to bigger 
successes, but suffered five of its six losses by six points or fewer. That, 
combined with Johnson returning as a senior, makes this an ideal 
situation for Klein to step in and have some immediate positive impact. 
He played at KSU from 2008-12 so already has a tremendous bond with 
the program, and his hiring was met with a lot of optimism. With no 
Texas Tech or BYU on the 2026 slate, I think this team has an outside 
shot at contending for a Big 12 title game berth.
 
SOUTH ALABAMA – OVER 5.5 WINS
Sometimes, there’s no rhyme or reason to figuring out why a specific 
improvement or decline in a recruiting season occurs. I don’t think South 
Alabama fans care about the how or why here, but in his third season, 
coming off a disappointing 4-8 record, head coach Major Applewhite 
was able to secure his best recruit/transfer class this spring, with the 
86th ranking beating last year’s grade by 31 positions. Several of the 
newcomers are P4 transfers. It gives USA at least a shot at getting a lot 
better on the field this fall. Also encouraging is the fact that QB Bishop 
Davenport is back for his senior season after leading this team to 26.5 PPG 
last year. The Sun Belt Conference doesn’t have a lot of teams contending 
for the role of favorite this season, and the Jaguars’ conference slate is 
mild at best. I like this team to return to a bowl game this fall.
 
SOUTH CAROLINA – OVER 6.5 WINS
South Carolina dropped by five wins in the regular season last year, and 
quite honestly, it was unexpected. The Gamecocks lost four games by 
10 points or less, all against teams that were ranked in the Top 25 at the 
time. Fortunately for head coach Shane Beamer, many of the key players 
decided to steady the ship and come back for another run, including 
QB LaNorris Sellers, this team’s offensive star. This is another team with 
several key transition systems to consider, among them: 1) One of the 
biggest improvements in wins from one season to the next you’ll find 
comes when nine or more offensive starters, including the quarterback, 
return from a team that won 50% or less of its games outright in the 
prior season. The average win increase is +2.7 wins & 13.3% SU. 2) 
There have been 43 teams over the last five seasons that have endured 
losing seasons despite outscoring their opponents. Of those, 17 of them 
brought back 13 or more starters, including their quarterback. The 
collective improvement of this group of teams was about 20% SU (+3.4 
wins) and 8.9% ATS. These teams combined to go 56.5% ATS, a profit-
making collection. Beamer’s team has a realistic shot of heading to 
Florida in October with a 4-1 record at least. A win there would give this 
team a ton of momentum in returning to where they were two years ago.
 
SYRACUSE – OVER 4.5 WINS
There are a lot of reasons why teams can yo-yo from one season to the next 
nowadays in college football. Losing a lot of key players from a successful 
team the prior year is at the head of the list in terms of why teams might 
drop. That clearly affected Syracuse in 2025, as the Orange went from 
10-3 to 3-9. Turnovers can also be big, and they were for ‘Cuse last season. 
However, in the “there’s nowhere to go but up” category, since 2021, 
there have been 21 teams that have won four or fewer games in a season 
while enduring a -0.8 or worse turnover ratio. Only two of those 21 teams 
regressed. The average win improvement for the other 19 teams was 2.3 
per season, and the SU win % upgrade was 15.3%. Overall, recruiting at 
Syracuse has seen an upgrade under Fran Brown, who begins his third 
season with the program. He is obviously a pretty strong salesman, as 
he was able to land the second-highest-rated class the Orange have seen 
in the last 17 years, despite coming off a 3-9 record. With QB Steve Angeli 
back for his senior season, and the ACC looking down for 2026, I think the 
Orange have a good chance to rebound.
 
TEXAS – OVER 9.5 WINS
The pressure on Texas and QB Arch Manning last year was palpable; you 
could sense it every time they took the field. Expectations were beyond 
reasonable control. The fact that the Longhorns still won 10 games despite 
a 5-7-1 ATS record shows just how much even the experts behind the 
bookmaking counter thought of this group. Well, they say that all is well 
that ends well, and head coach Steve Sarkisian’s team won its final three 
games of 2025, and Manning exploded statistically in those contests. 
The offense put up 456 yards in the bowl win over Michigan. That is the 
momentum they will be carrying into 2026. In addition, a program that 
achieved its first-ever No. 1 recruiting ranking in the country on record 
last year, then followed it up with a No. 3 rank, seems due for lofty goals. 
There is one key transitional system I have my eye on regarding Texas: 
Only three of the last 33 teams since 2021 that had nine or more offensive 
returning starters, including the quarterback, from a team that won 45% 
or less of its games against the spread in the prior season, got worse. The 
average win increase of the other 30 teams was +2.0 wins, 6.7% SU, and 
16.8% ATS. These teams were also about 53% ATS. Two additional wins 
would put this team at 11-1. I think that’s realistic with the talent that is in 
place here and a QB 100% ready to fulfill his immense promise.
 
TEXAS A&M – OVER 8.5 WINS
VSiN college football fans will know that I throw the term 
“stability” around often, particularly in the offseason. One 
of the more stable teams prepping for 2026 across the country is head 
coach Mike Elko’s Texas A&M squad, a team that reached the CFP last 
year but was stymied by Miami at home. With Elko in his third year now 
in College Station, I think last year’s growth of three wins will prove to 
be a big stepping stone forward for the program into elite territory. QB 
Marcel Reed returns again for the Aggies as a junior, along with 17 
other starters! Teams returning a starting quarterback for at least a 
second straight season as a starter usually show nice improvement, 
typically by about 0.9 wins per season (+1.4% win pct). When you 
add the same head coach/offensive coordinator to the recipe 
along with at least seven other total offensive returning 
starters, the improvement jumps by 1.3 wins per season 
and 53.3% ATS combined, a profitable group. Of the 
38 teams, only 12 won fewer games. Similarly, only 
three of the last 33 teams since 2021 that had nine 
or more offensive returning starters, including 
the quarterback, from a team that won 45% 
or less of its games against the spread in 
the prior season, got worse. The average 
win increase of the other 30 teams 
was +2.0 wins, 6.7% SU, and 16.8% 
ATS. These teams were also about 
53% ATS. As I said earlier…
very stable situation here, 
and a very talented roster 
and coaching staff. 
That’s usually a great 
combination.
 
Marcel Reed
