24
2026 VSiN COLLEGE FOOTBALL BETTING GUIDE
UCLA – 
OVER 6.5 WINS
After guiding James Madison to the CFP last season, 
a lot of power conference schools had interest in Bob Chesney, and he 
eventually settled at UCLA, where he takes over for DeShaun Foster, 
who guided the Bruins through two seasons of 8-16 football. The 2025 
UCLA team was a massive disappointment, particularly after landing QB 
Nico Iamaleava in the transfer portal. Nico was a lightning rod for the 
program and was vilified when the team struggled and praised during 
the shocking three-game Big Ten winning streak in October. Chesney 
does get Iamaleava back for 2026, plus numerous Power Four starters in 
as transfers. In all, this program is expected to have what amounts to 18 
starting players filling spots for this fall, a lofty number in this day and 
age. Clearly there is major room for improvement when a team wins 
less than 50% of its games in the prior season, but some of the biggest 
improvement is realized when these teams bring back their starting 
quarterback plus hire a new head coach and coordinators. Over the last 
five seasons, the average winning percentage increase of the 21 teams 
that have done this has been 15.2% SU (+2.1 wins) and 13.3% ATS. Only 
one of the 21 teams got worse. Will it amount to winning on the field 
this season? Well, the schedule has what I would consider to be six very 
winnable home games, and the win total is only 6.5 at DraftKings. I 
think this situation has a good chance of surpassing that number, and 
there will be an obvious coaching upgrade.
 
UNLV – OVER 7.5 WINS
Do yourself a favor…go through the UNLV schedule for 2026, which is 
minus Boise State this year after the Broncos left for the Pac-12, and 
tell me if there are any games which you designate in the “likely loss” 
category. In my opinion, with the meteoric rise New Mexico made last 
year, the Runnin’ Rebels’ Mountain West consistency in recent years 
makes them the favorite in the league. Including Auburn transfer QB 
Jackson Arnold, UNLV Head Coach Dan Mullen seems to have picked 
up right where successful prior coach Barry Odom left off, bringing in 
highly-respected recruiting classes to carry on the momentum of 30-12 
over the past three years. Mullen has been able to bring in numerous P4 
transfers with the allure of Sin City. This should have the Runnin’ Rebels 
in the hunt for MWC titles year-in and year-out for the near future. 
Running this team’s power rating against the 2026 schedule produced a 
9-3 record. The most balanced wagering option at DK on the win total 
sits at a modest 7.5. I would have no problem betting it upward either.
 
VIRGINIA TECH – OVER 6.5 WINS
Though James Franklin had very good success at Penn State, his teams 
could never meet the demands of the fans in Happy Valley. That said, 
he was perhaps never as effusive in his praise of his team’s offseason 
work as he has been this season. The excitement for Hokies’ football is 
palpable, mostly because of the eagerness Franklin is showing to get 
things started. He was able to retain 15 of this team’s starters from last 
year and added three more through the portal, including PSU QB Ethan 
Grunkemeyer, 
who started seven 
games as a freshman last year. 
There are two nice transitional angles 
backing the Hokies for improvement in 2026: 1) Of the 
141 teams over the last five years that brought back at least four 
starters more than the prior season, only 40 got worse. The average 
improvement of the group that didn’t drop off was a winning percentage 
bump of 15% (+3.2 wins) and an ATS rise of 6.7%. 2) In the “there’s 
nowhere to go but up” category, since 2021, there have been 21 teams 
that have won four or fewer games in a season while enduring a -0.8 or 
worse turnover ratio. Only 2 of those 21 teams regressed. The average 
win improvement for the other 19 teams was 2.3 per season, and the 
SU win % upgrade was 15.3%. With the upgraded coaching staff, the 
vast experience returning, and the overall excitement peaking, DK has 
posted a win total of about 6.5, which to me seems a little understated 
in a season of a lot of question marks in the ACC. There are some very 
probable wins early on the schedule, which could propel this team to a 
very nice 2026 season.
 
15 teams I project to go Under their 
DraftKings season win props
 
COASTAL CAROLINA – UNDER 4.5 WINS
Is there cause for concern already in Myrtle Beach as new head coach 
Ryan Beard begins his tenure with the Coastal Carolina program? The 
Chanticleers have been a bowl-game fixture and Sun Belt contender 
over the last half-decade or so. His first recruiting class was a nightmare 
by program standards, this coming on the heels of what is a sliding 
performance chart. Beard’s predecessor Tim Beck failed to live up to the 
successes of his predecessor Jamey Chadwell and was eventually fired 
at the conclusion of the 6-6 regular season last year. His swan song was 
a 59-10 drubbing at the hands of James Madison. The program followed 
that up with another bowl game loss. In the final three regular season 
games, Beck’s CCU team was outscored 155-57. Thus, the Chanticleers 
will be looking to snap a four-game losing skid in their opener at West 
Virginia. There is a junior college transfer QB sitting No. 1 on the depth 
chart right now in Tre Guerra, and very little starting experience coming 
back elsewhere. The win total is at 4.5, a very low number considering 
where this program has been in recent years. I think the experts are 
telling us this is going to be a trying season in Myrtle Beach.
 
CONNECTICUT – UNDER 5.5 WINS
New head coach Jason Candle spent a decade at Toledo, and it was a 
very successful run, as he went 81-44 and the Rockets finished at least 
.500 in every season. He gets the chance to keep the momentum going at 
UConn. Here the Huskies come off back-to-back nine-win seasons under 
former coach Jim Mora, Jr. Candle’s experience and past successes 
alone might not be enough this season, as he will have one of the most 
inexperienced rosters in the country and the schedule is a bit tougher 
than we’ve been accustomed to with UConn under Mora. Oddsmakers 
are, in fact, expecting a pretty sharp drop-off this season in Storrs, as 
UConn’s win total is set at a mere 5.5 after the recent run of success. 
With three Power Four schools on the schedule and a handful of other 
prominent G5 programs, I think we’re going to see some first-year 
struggles for Candle & Co. If it’s data you are hoping for besides the zero 
stability rating, consider that teams that are off of seasons in which 
they won 60% or more of their games outright and have four or fewer 
offensive starters returning, plus are breaking in a new quarterback 
Nico Iamaleava
