25
2026 VSiN COLLEGE FOOTBALL BETTING GUIDE
have dropped by an average of -3.7 wins, -26% outright, -11.7% ATS, 
and -6.6 PPG offensively. The eight teams that added a new head coach 
plummeted by 29% and -4.4 wins per season, and UConn fits the bill. 
If that weren’t enough, there is a potential landmine system that has 
affected teams coming off a season in which they enjoyed a positive 1.0 
or better turnover differential but are now starting fresh at quarterback. 
The 27 most recent teams that have fit this bill over the last decade have 
dropped by 2.6 wins per season in the next campaign, representing a 
18.5% plunge outright and 11.8% dip ATS.
 
IOWA STATE – UNDER 5.5 WINS
Matt Campbell left quite an impression and lasting legacy at Iowa State 
in the decade he was in Ames. Unfortunately, when he opted to leave 
for Penn State, he also took a lot of his players he worked so hard to 
recruit to ISU with him. As a result, new head coach Jimmy Rogers, 
last out of Washington State, starts his first season here essentially 
from scratch. On the roster are only two players on each side of the 
ball with any FBS starting experience, and one is a transfer QB Jaylen 
Raynor from a Sun Belt program. It could be a very long year in Ames, 
and most respected prognosticators have this perennial contending 
program projected at the bottom of the Big 12. Of course, DraftKings’ 
oddsmakers don’t seem to be as much in a doom-and-gloom forecast 
mode for ISU as those trying to analyze the numbers. They have set 
the season win total for the Cyclones at 5.5, just 2.5 off of last year’s 8-4 
season. If you recall, this program opted out of a bowl game after too 
many players transferred out. There are a couple of probable wins on 
the non-conference slate, but at this point, it’s hard to see ISU favored 
in any Big 12 game. Look at a couple of the data systems suggesting 
a Cyclones fall: 1) Over the last five years, 51 teams have had at least 
eight fewer returning starters than the prior season, and only 15 of 
them have improved that season. The average drop-off of those that 
didn’t improve was a winning percentage decline of 24% (-3.3 wins) 
and ATS drop of about 6.3%. 2) Teams that are off seasons in which 
they won 60% or more of their games outright and have four or fewer 
offensive starters returning, plus are breaking in a new quarterback, 
have dropped by an average of -3.7 wins, -26% outright, -11.7% ATS, 
and -6.6 PPG offensively. The eight teams that added a new head coach 
plummeted by 29% & -4.4 wins per season. I’m dead set on Under 
on this one, as a lot of conference rivals will be ready to pounce on a 
formerly prominent program in transition.
 
KENTUCKY – UNDER 4.5 WINS
For Mark Stoops to last a decade in the SEC at perhaps the conference’s 
premier basketball school says a lot about the stability he brought to the 
Kentucky program. In all, he took the Wildcats to eight bowl games and 
won 82 games. His dismissal came after an embarrassing 41-0 season-
ending loss to Louisville, as university brass decided it was time to move 
on. The new hire is a Louisville guy, as Will Stein played quarterback 
there for five years and started his coaching career there some 13 years 
ago. Since then, he has made a few stops, including most recently 
serving as offensive coordinator for Oregon. He led a high-powered 
offense there with QB Dante Moore, but there isn’t that type of talent 
right now at UK, nor has there been on that side of the ball for a long 
time. There is a lot of other transfer talent fresh to Lexington as well, but 
that might not make it any easier for the new regime in Year 1. The DK 
win total is a modest 4.5, and when looking at the schedule, it would still 
require an upset or two. It’s Arkansas or Kentucky for the bottom of the 
SEC this season. Let’s lean Under here.
 
LIBERTY – UNDER 8.5 WINS
To this day, I’ve always been puzzled as to why head coach Jamey 
Chadwell left Coastal Carolina and Myrtle Beach and opted for Liberty. 
I have felt that recruiting would naturally be tougher in Lynchburg, VA. 
Well, after a solid 2025 graded class came in and produced a 4-8 record, 
the 2026 class bottomed out by 34 ranking positions. I’m not sure the 
worst is behind the Flames, and I’m intrigued as to why oddsmakers 
would post a significantly improved win total of 8.5 after last year’s 
struggles, or why some respected prognosticators would have the Flames 
atop CUSA in the preseason? Plus, after three straight years of having the 
nation’s easiest schedule on paper, this year Liberty is sixth-easiest. This 
team might be better in 2026 than last year, but five games better? That 
seems like a stretch.
 
MEMPHIS – UNDER 7.5 WINS
Charles Huff is making his third coaching stop in as many years after 
guiding Marshall and Southern Miss to successful seasons in 2024 and 
2025. He makes a jump up this time to Memphis, where he takes over a 
program that has been one of the better and most consistent Group of 
Five teams for the last decade-plus. Like his predecessors at Memphis, 
including most recently Ryan Silverfield, you’d have to believe that this 
job is viewed as another step up the ladder for the oft-moving Huff. 
His name has become synonymous with instability, and unlike recent 
seasons, Memphis is not picked among the elite teams in the American 
Conference in 2026, sixth in fact by Phil Steele. There is only one 2025 
Tigers’ starter back, so most of what you’ll see from this team will be 
totally fresh. There is a unique transitional angle in play for the Tigers 
here too: There have been 33 teams over the last six seasons that have 
recorded 4+ blowout wins of 20 points or more in one season, then had 
to change head coaches for one reason or another. Only five of the 33 
teams got better the next season, and collectively, they dropped by an 
average of 17.2%, or 2.8 wins per season, as well as 11.4% ATS. As a 
group, they were 44.2% ATS. The inexperience will certainly be a factor, 
as will the supposed starting QB, after the spring game listed as Marcus 
Stokes, a transfer from D-2 Western Florida. This might be too big of a 
step up for Stokes and Huff.
 
MISSOURI STATE – UNDER 4.5 WINS
It was a solid first season at the FBS level and in Conference USA for 
Missouri State as the Bears won seven games and received a bowl bid, 
a game they would eventually lose to Arkansas State. Year 2 at college 
football’s top level looks to be a little more challenging, however, as the 
program moves on from Ryan Beard, the head coach of the last three 
years, who led them through a very successful transition. Casey Woods, 
who last served as SMU’s offensive coordinator, takes the reins in his first 
chance as a head coach. He inherits a team with a Stability Score of zero 
for the season. There is very little experience on the roster, including 
at QB, where Duke transfer Henry Belin is expected to take over as a 
senior, and he is guiding a program that generally overachieved last 
season. Beating expectations by so much is a tough ask of any team. 
DraftKings sets the main win total line at 4.5. That might be overzealous, 
especially after a season in which the Bears won five games by seven 
points or fewer. Close wins are often characterized as getting “lucky” 
over the course of a season. Well, teams that have a lot of them and then 
come back inexperienced are naturally expected to drop. Over the last 
13 seasons, 73 teams brought back 14 starters or fewer and had a new QB 
from a team that was fortunate to get four or more close wins of seven 
points or fewer in the prior season. Only 11 of these teams finished 
better the next season, with the average win drop being 2.6 per season, a 
16.7% plunge.
 
NEBRASKA – UNDER 6.5 WINS
Last year was supposed to be the year that head coach Matt Rhule and 
Nebraska took that elusive step forward. Or was it the year before? Or 
the year before that? Well, years of failing to live up to billing might have 
finally come crashing down on Nebraska and Rhule. His 2026 recruit/
transfer class ranked 66th in the country. Not only is that a severe drop-
off from the program’s 15-year average, but it was the worst ranking 
the Cornhuskers have received in that time span by 31 positions. I can’t 
imagine this will help improve on back-to-back 7-6 seasons. Typically, 
when expectations fail to be met year in and year out, it is the problem 
of those setting the expectations, not the team. For this year, the season 
win prop is set at 6.5, similar to recent seasons seemingly without 
much consideration given to what personnel was lost or gained in the 
offseason. In my opinion, the Cornhuskers are down a bit, and the last 
seven weeks of the Big Ten slate are ridiculously tough. Let’s go Under 
on this one.
