26
2026 VSiN COLLEGE FOOTBALL BETTING GUIDE
NORTHERN ILLINOIS – UNDER 3.5 WINS
Talk about a challenging set of circumstances facing Rob Harley in 
2026 for Northern Illinois. Not only is he a new head coach for the first 
time, he is also doing it under the tag of interim and is guiding a team 
that is in a transition year to a new and more challenging conference. 
It wasn’t like the team he is taking over was elite last year either. The 
Huskies finished 3-9 for former coach Thomas Hammock. I don’t know 
exactly what the most optimistic NIU fans are hoping for this fall, but 
it’s probably too much. The Phil Steele guide shows NIU with exactly 
zero players with starting experience on the roster for the defense this 
season. That unit posted respectable numbers in the MAC last year, 
allowing 24.3 PPG. Defensive coordinator changes and inexperience are 
also a recipe for trouble. Of the 24 teams that have changed defensive 
coordinators after a season allowing fewer than 25 PPG and brought 
back four or fewer defensive starters, only six teams have improved 
their won-lost percentage. The average decline for the other 18 teams 
was 26.1% (-3.9 wins) on winning percentage and 13.9% ATS. These 
teams also covered only 44.4% of their point spreads and allowed 7.9 
PPG more. The offense scored just 17.1 PPG, so the fact that five starters 
are back from that unit with another transferring in may or may not be a 
blessing. How are they going to keep up with some of the better offenses 
from the Mountain West? Patience is best preached in circumstances 
like this, but it’s hard to see more than a win or two this season.
 
NORTH TEXAS – UNDER 5.5 WINS
North Texas scored the most points in the country last year, and new 
head coach Neal Brown was only able to bring in better recruit/
transfer classes than four other programs across the country. 
Pardon my French, but that is utter failure to start his tenure. 
The biggest loss is, of course, QB Drew Mestemaker, and 
replacing him is virtually impossible. There’s a reason 
oddsmakers have dropped this team’s win total prop 
significantly coming off a 12-win season. For 
UNT, the win total figure at DK is 5.5, which of 
course would represent a drop of 6.5 wins. 
To answer whether or not the Mean 
Green will be better or worse, they 
will undoubtedly be worse. How 
much worse is the issue. It is 
backed up by data: 1) Over 
the last five years, 51 
teams have had at 
least eight fewer 
returning 
starters 
than 
the 
prior season, and only 15 of them have improved that season. The 
average drop-off of those that didn’t improve was a winning percentage 
decline of 24% (-3.3 wins) and ATS drop of about 6.3%. 2) Teams that are 
off seasons in which they won 60% or more of their games outright and 
have 4 or fewer offensive starters returning, plus are breaking in a new 
quarterback over the last five seasons, have dropped by an average of 
-3.7 wins, -26% outright, -11.7% ATS, and -6.6 PPG offensively. The eight 
teams that added a new head coach plummeted by 29% & -4.4 wins per 
season. Taking a look at the 2026 slate, it could be a difficult three-game 
start for Brown & Co. with a trip to defending champion Indiana first up. 
Yikes. Look out below.
 
OHIO U – UNDER 6.5 WINS
Ohio U is another team undergoing massive change for first-year 
head coach John Hauser, although he was the DC here previously, so 
perhaps less change than other teams on this Under list. However, 
teams that are off of seasons in which they won 60% or more of their 
games outright and have four or fewer offensive starters returning, 
plus are breaking in a new quarterback, have dropped by an average 
of -3.7 wins, -26% outright, -11.7% ATS, and -6.6 PPG offensively. The 
eight teams that added a new head coach plummeted by 29% and 
-4.4 wins per season. A 4.4-win drop would put the Bobcats at 3.6-8.4. 
Now, while that may be a bit drastic considering the consistency this 
program has performed with over the last decade, a drop is expected 
nonetheless. I think we also need to consider that this team won five of 
its nine games by seven points or fewer. Radical change can turn that 
around quickly. Close wins are often characterized as getting “lucky” 
over the course of a season. Well, teams that have a lot of them and 
then come back inexperienced are naturally expected to drop. Over the 
last 13 seasons, 73 teams brought back 14 starters or fewer and had a 
new QB from a team that was fortunate to get four or more close wins 
of seven points or fewer in the prior season. Only 11 of these teams 
finished better the next season, with the average win drop being 2.6 
per season, a 16.7% plunge.
 
SACRAMENTO STATE – UNDER 4.5 WINS
In my opinion, there are even varied levels of Stability Scores of 
zero in college football nowadays. I don’t give negative numbers, 
but if I did, what Sacramento State and new head coach Alonzo 
Carter are facing in 2026 would qualify. Not only is he a new coach 
with a new staff and an almost entirely new roster, but his program 
is jumping from FCS to FBS and is playing in a conference in a 
completely different area of the country. And, here’s a weird one 
for you. As Sacramento State got ready for its final season of FCS-
level football a year ago, it scored a program-high 73rd-ranked 
incoming recruit/transfer class. As it transitions to FBS this year, 
the class is ranked 122nd. Perhaps potential recruits didn’t like the 
potential challenges of dealing with a MAC schedule, the Midwest, 
the mid-week games, etc. As one of the more consistent and high-
performing teams from the FCS, the Hornets believe they are 
ready to compete at the FBS level and in the MAC. The Hornets 
have won 7+ games in five of the last six seasons of football. 
That said, there have been 33 teams over the last six 
seasons that have recorded 4+ blowout wins of 20 
points or more one season, then had to change 
head coaches for one reason or another. Only 
five of the 33 teams got better the next 
season, and collectively, they dropped by 
an average of 17.2%, or 2.8 wins per 
season, as well as 11.4% ATS. As 
a group, they were 44.2% ATS. 
Phil Steele picks them last in 
the conference, behind 
even UMass, whose 
win total is 2.5. Yes, 
expectations are 
low.
 
