27
2026 VSiN COLLEGE FOOTBALL BETTING GUIDE
SAN JOSE STATE – 
UNDER 4.5 WINS
Recruiting efforts have dropped off 
severely at San Jose State and third-year head 
coach Ken Niumatalolo has not been able to 
revive them. Last year the results finally showed 
on the field as the Spartans finished 3-9. The 
incoming talent doesn’t suggest things will get 
much better in 2026. It seems that Niumatalolo’s 
coaching magic from his years at Navy has worn off. 
For this year, he has only three starters back from last 
year’s 3-9 team, and over the last five years, 51 teams 
have had at least eight fewer returning starters than the 
prior season, and only 15 of them have improved that 
season. The average drop-off of those that didn’t improve 
was a winning percentage decline of 24% (-3.3 wins) and 
ATS drop of about 6.3%. SJSU has also changed offensive 
coordinators, and offensive coordinator changes, when 
combined with little experience returning, is also a trouble 
sign. Over the last five seasons, there have been 56 teams 
that have hired new offensive coordinators the same season 
they had four or fewer offensive starters returning and a new 
quarterback. Only 19 teams improved. The 37 teams that did not 
declined by -17.8% (-2.4 wins) on winning percentages, and -4.1% 
ATS. They collectively have gone just 45.1% ATS, making them 
a strong play-against group. The average scoring output dropped 
about 5.6 PPG. The Spartans can’t afford any drop. This program’s 
best days might be behind them for a little while.
 
SOUTH FLORIDA – UNDER 8.5 WINS
I am as excited as anyone to see what Brian Hartline can do at South 
Florida, but I get the feeling that first-year expectations might be a little 
over-exuberant. Since joining the Ohio State staff in 2017, it was obvious 
that Hartline was making a beeline for a prominent head coaching spot 
in college football. As a wide receiver coach and offensive coordinator, 
his players and teams were among the best in the country. He gets a 
pretty strong opportunity here, taking over a USF program that made 
nice strides under Alex Golesh, finishing last season 9-4. It’s a situation 
that truly looks hard to predict, at least right away. Hartline figures to be 
successful in short order, and this would then be just a quick hurdle onto 
a Power Four job. The season win total at 8.5 via DraftKings seems a little 
aggressive, though. I’ll lean Under, especially since the teams that are off 
of seasons in which they won 60% or more of their games outright and 
have four or fewer offensive starters returning, plus are breaking in a 
new quarterback, have dropped by an average of -3.7 wins, -26% outright, 
-11.7% ATS, and -6.6 PPG offensively. The eight teams that added a new 
head coach plummeted by 29% & -4.4 wins per season.
 
TOLEDO – UNDER 7.5 WINS
There are 10 teams this season starting with Stability Scores of zero. One 
of them is Toledo, who, for the last decade or so, has annually been one 
of the more stable situations year-in and year-out. The Rockets program 
has been known for having a lot of returning starters each summer, and 
correspondingly, a lot of success under previous coach Jason Candle. 
Well, the first domino fell in the spring after Candle’s departure, as the 
commotion caused was felt in the recruiting results, where replacement 
Mike Jacobs seems to have taken a big swing and miss in the area of 
recruiting. To put it simply, Toledo’s 120th ranking from 247Sports is 
almost a 40-position drop off the 16-year average. Ouch. Jacobs does 
take over a program that has been in great shape, but there will be some 
significant challenges this season. The Rockets lost a lot more starts/
experience than they brought in via the transfer portal. Officially, there 
will only be six players with starting experience back, only two of them 
Toledo players from the offense. The win total is set at 7.5, and the 
Rockets are one of only two MAC teams starting the season with new 
coaching staffs. Still, they are picked first in the conference by many 
prognosticators. It’s tough to envision this season not being at least a 
slight decline. I think this prop goes Under.
Ken Niumatalolo
