29
2026 VSiN COLLEGE FOOTBALL BETTING GUIDE
Charles Huff  Memphis
This will be an interesting season for Huff. He seemed like a bit of an odd hire at Marshall, having primarily served as 
a running backs coach in his career, but he was on Nick Saban’s staff when the Thundering Herd came calling. After a 
32-20 run in Huntington, he went to Southern Miss because Marshall let the reigning Sun Belt Conference champion 
head coach walk away. He took a big chunk of his roster to Southern Miss and went 7-5 before leveling up to Memphis. 
As mentioned above with Silverfield, Memphis has a pretty robust NIL budget thanks to FedEx and Huff, who has 
connections all over the country from his different stops, could find immediate and prolonged success with resources he 
didn’t have at his two previous stops.
Neal Brown  North Texas
I wouldn’t call myself a glass-half-full person by nature, but when it comes to new coaching hires, I’m often optimistic. I 
can’t say that about North Texas’s hire of Brown, who was let go from West Virginia in 2024 and served as Steve Sarkisian’s 
assistant in 2025. Brown has over 120 games of head coaching experience under his belt, all at the FBS level. He was very 
successful at Troy with three 10-win seasons in a row before heading to Morgantown. He is an offensive-minded guy, 
but not like Eric Morris, who ran more of a run-and-shoot style. It might work and the bar isn’t terribly high, given that 
the program has three winning seasons since 2013, but it feels like UNT is drifting closer to mediocrity again rather than 
living up to what should be their new standard.
Will Hall  Tulane
Losing Willie Fritz and then Jon Sumrall would be tough for any program, but not taking a third swing at a rising name 
feels like a miss. Instead, Tulane promoted pass game coordinator Will Hall, who had a miserable tenure at Southern 
Miss, going 14-30 over three seasons and seven games. Hall went to Hattiesburg after serving as Tulane’s OC in 2019-20 
and was a fairly hot commodity after some strong seasons at West Alabama and West Georgia as a young head coach, but 
his star faded after the Southern Miss years. It just feels like the Green Wave took the easy route and that seems really 
disappointing.
Brian Hartline  USF
Suffice it to say that December 3 was a day that Ohio State fans had been dreading for a long time. Hartline, who was a 
star WR for the Buckeyes from 2005-08, was on the staff in Columbus from 2017-25 and directly responsible for Marvin 
Harrison Jr., Garrett Wilson, Emeka Egbuka, Jaxon Smith-Njigba, Chris Olave, Carnell Tate, and now Jeremiah Smith. The 
absurd receiver pipeline is just one attractive element to Hartline, who was Ohio State’s OC/co-OC the last three seasons. 
USF is looking to keep up the offensive prowess they had under another Ohio State alum in Alex Golesh, but it’s fair to 
question Hartline’s experience outside of his offensive bubble. Just as important as Hartline might be DC Josh Aldridge, 
who is just in his second year calling plays.
AMERICAN
