30
2026 VSiN COLLEGE FOOTBALL BETTING GUIDE
Tosh Lupoi  California
Lupoi’s first crack at being a head coach is with his alma mater and allows his coaching career to come full circle. Lupoi 
was a Golden Bear from 2000-05 and the program’s defensive line coach from 2008-11. In looking at Lupoi, it got me 
thinking about racehorses and bloodlines. Lupoi’s college coaching career has been under Jeff Tedford, Steve Sarkisian, 
Nick Saban, and Dan Lanning. He also spent three seasons in the NFL under Freddie Kitchens, Dan Quinn, and Urban 
Meyer. There is a ton of coaching experience in that list and the 44-year-old Lupoi had to pick up a lot of things. On the 
other hand, even well-bred horses don’t always work out and Lupoi, who follows another guy who had a lot of good 
mentors in Justin Wilcox, is another defensive-minded guy at a place that badly needs an injection of offense. 
Tavita Pritchard  Stanford
In retrospect, I don’t think we give enough credit to Jim Harbaugh and David Shaw for what they did at Stanford. If 
somebody can replicate that in today’s NIL era, it will be one of the best coaching jobs we’ve ever seen. The program got a 
$50 million donation in October 2025 from former player Bradford Freeman and had instituted a revenue-sharing model 
in the spring of 2025. Even with the weight that a Stanford degree carries, Andrew Luck, and now Pritchard, who played 
for the Cardinal from 2006-09 and coached for them from 2011-22, know the academic requirements in Palo Alto severely 
limit the player pool. Pritchard has spent the last three seasons with the Commanders coaching up QBs, including, of 
course, Jayden Daniels. “Unimaginative” is the best way to describe the hire after Frank Reich responded to Luck’s plea to 
serve as a stopgap last season.
James Franklin  Virginia Tech
I made sure to double-check that Ohio State and Michigan did not move to the ACC before discussing Franklin. The guy 
is a solid motivator, a good recruiter, and a pretty lackluster in-game coach, but the conference lacks premier teams right 
now, and this is a perfect landing spot for him. As a guy who is just 8-7 in bowl games and 2-1 in the CFP, he’s had a very 
high regular-season floor with two 9-4 seasons at Vanderbilt in the early 2010s when that was a rough job, and six double-
digit winning seasons at Penn State. There’s a lot of talent in the Hokies’ pipeline and Franklin, a southeastern PA native, 
should do very well recruiting in the DMV and the Keystone State. This could be and should be a quick transformation.
ACC
James Franklin
