31
2026 VSiN COLLEGE FOOTBALL BETTING GUIDE
Jimmy Rogers  Iowa State
Time will tell whether or not this is a good hire, but AD Jamie Pollard has made some good ones with Matt Campbell on 
the football side and Fred Hoiberg, Steve Prohm, and T.J. Otzelberger on the basketball side. He spent $4 million to buy 
Rogers out of his Washington State contract, so he was locked in from the jump on the 39-year-old, who won the FCS 
National Championship in his first season as a head coach at South Dakota State and lost in the semifinal in Year 2. This 
will be just his third year at the FBS level, having served as a GA at Florida Atlantic in 2012 under Carl Pelini and then as 
the head coach of Wazzu last season. Pollard unequivocally deserves the benefit of the doubt here and Rogers is inheriting 
a much better foundation than his predecessor did from Paul Rhoads.
Collin Klein  Kansas State
After spreading his wings to fly to College Station for two seasons, Klein is back in the Little Apple to coach at his alma 
mater. Klein was on the staff in 2014-15 and again from 2017-23, serving primarily as the QB coach and then OC. He’s 
one of the best players in the program’s history and he does seem to be a solid coach, given that he’s only 36 and already 
has this job after Chris Klieman and Bill Snyder, two guys who excelled in Manhattan for boosters and bettors. With OC 
Sean Gleeson and DC Jordan Peterson, this is a young staff that will learn and grow together, so bumps in the road are 
inevitable and this was just a 6-6 program last season.
Eric Morris  Oklahoma State
A return to the glory days of Oklahoma State football may not be that far away. It is hard to believe that this was a top-
10 team in 2021 and a 10-win team in 2023 with just how badly it has gone the last two seasons. The Cowboys were a 
combined 4-20, prompting the pink slip for longtime head coach Mike “Teach Me How To” Gundy. That included an 0-18 
record in the new-look Big 12. Enter Eric Morris, who played and coached under Mike Leach and Kliff Kingsbury, and 
who led North Texas to the program’s first AP ranking in over 65 years and a chance at being the G5 CFP representative. 
The gunslinger mentality is back in Stillwater and I think the Cowboys make a big leap, especially with an excellent DC in 
Skyler Cassity.
Morgan Scalley  Utah
After basically a decade of being the head coach-in-waiting, except for a short period of time after a scandal involving 
the use of racial stereotypes, Scalley gets his shot with Whittingham off to Michigan. Scalley coached the Utes in the Las 
Vegas Bowl to a 44-22 win and now he’s the full-time guy. The Salt Lake City native played at Utah and has coached at 
Utah since 2007, serving as DC for the last 10 seasons. He certainly knows the program and is plenty familiar with the 
recruiting pipelines. It may work out, though Year 3 in the Big 12 might be a little bit rocky.
BIG  12
Morgan Scalley
