32
2026 VSiN COLLEGE FOOTBALL BETTING GUIDE
Kyle Whittingham  Michigan
Sherrone Moore’s ugly departure from Ann Arbor on the heels of Jim Harbaugh’s tainted National Championship 
created the need for a well-respected, accomplished football lifer to clean up the program. Enter Whittingham, who 
calls somewhere other than Salt Lake City home for the first time since he was the DC at Idaho State from 1992-93. I’ll 
be honest - Whittingham has long been viewed as one of the game’s elite coaches, both against the spread and in terms 
of maximizing talent. His Utah teams were always tough to face because of their presence in the trenches. But, I am 
skeptical of the 66-year-old entering the Big Ten and a program with extreme expectations.
Pat Fitzgerald  Michigan State
It might be unfair to call a College Football Hall of Famer an underwhelming hire, but this is an underwhelming hire. 
Fitzgerald was dismissed from Northwestern in 2023 following an investigation into hazing and sexual assault. A thorough 
investigation was completed and Fitzgerald was shown the door, though it’s hard not to wonder if he would have had more 
program support if the team hadn’t gone 1-11 the previous season and 3-9 the season before that. Either way, Fitzgerald, 
who was a volunteer coach at his son’s high school for the last three seasons, gets another chance after the aspirational 
hire of Jonathan Smith didn’t work out. It feels like the ceiling in East Lansing is very low moving forward.
Matt Campbell  Penn State
Of all the Power Four hires, this is the hardest one to project in my estimation. After a decade at Iowa State, where 
Campbell really built up the Cyclones amid a lot of financial and reputational shortcomings in a high-octane offensive 
conference, Penn State is a different beast. Campbell’s four-year run at Toledo was great and his decade in Ames was 
tremendous, but this is a BIG job. Campbell has strong Ohio ties, which should help with recruiting and he did really well 
to get D’Anton Lynn, a Texas native, as the DC, giving Penn State a lot of connections from coast to coast. What stood out 
at Iowa State is how Campbell maximized the talent he was able to recruit. With more fertile recruiting grounds now, 
what can he do with more talent? That’ll be the big question, and maybe one not quite answered in 2026.
Bob Chesney  UCLA
The hire of former James Madison head coach Curt Cignetti seemed to work out at Indiana, and now the Bruins’ athletic 
department is hoping for the same with Chesney, who was at Holy Cross prior to his two seasons with the Dukes. Chesney 
is a winner with a career 132-52 record and he took JMU to the College Football Playoff as the G5 representative last 
season. For a Bruins bunch that has only finished the season ranked one time since 2014, the bar isn’t terribly high, 
so Chesney, a strong hire by all accounts, has the chance to rapidly improve the program, even with a tough Big Ten 
schedule.
BIG  TEN
Bob Chesney
