33
2026 VSiN COLLEGE FOOTBALL BETTING GUIDE
Casey Woods  Missouri State
Missouri State had to be quietly planning for Ryan Beard to be offered another job, but they probably didn’t think it would 
be so soon. With Beard off to Coastal Carolina following the program’s first FBS season, AD Patrick Ransdell, who got the 
job just before the start of the football season, moved quickly to hire Woods from SMU. Woods has worn a lot of different 
hats, including OC under Rhett Lashlee and director of player personnel at Auburn. Ransdell understands mid-major 
football, having worked at App State and UCF previously, so I think he’s trustworthy in isolating Woods as quickly as 
he did. A guy who has worked under Gus Malzahn, Bill Clark, Eli Drinkwitz, and Lashlee, and is also the son of 50-year 
coaching vet Sparky Woods, probably ends up being a solid hire.
Alex Mortensen  UAB
Mortensen isn’t a new head coach, per se, as he took over when Trent Dilfer was booted from Birmingham, but he’s the 
full-time guy now. He was 2-4 in his six games and led a big upset of Memphis in his first game at the helm, which may 
very well have been the deciding factor in just keeping him. The Dilfer hire was out of left field, to say the least, when the 
players desperately wanted Bryant Vincent to take over the job permanently when he filled in for Bill Clark, but that didn’t 
happen. Simply elevating Mortensen from OC reeks of being too cheap to make an impact hire.
Jason Candle  UConn
On the surface, this looks like a great hire. Candle went 81-44 at Toledo and had no problems succeeding Matt Campbell 
with the newfound success he brought to the Rockets. At the same time, Campbell only won the MAC twice in 10 seasons 
as the head coach and owns a career bowl record of 3-5. Not to mention, the Rockets have had a penchant for losing 
games as a big favorite, losing more than 10 times as a TD+ favorite from 2021-25. On the plus side, he won’t see a lot of 
big favorite roles with the Huskies. On the downside, a program like UConn simply has to win games in which they are 
favored and Candle has had major problems doing just that.
INDEPENDENT      CONFERENCE  USA
