34
2026 VSiN COLLEGE FOOTBALL BETTING GUIDE
Mark Carney  Kent State
Anybody who wins five games at Kent State deserves Coach of the Year consideration. For Carney, starting the season 3-5 
meant his interim tag was stripped off. The team was 0-16 in MAC play and 1-23 overall under Kenni Burns, so Carney’s 
.500 record in the conference and 5-7 season was remarkable. While they fell short of bowl eligibility, they did beat rival 
Akron and also beat Bowling Green. The overall numbers look a lot worse given losses of 62-14, 66-10, and 44-0 to Texas 
Tech, Florida State, and Oklahoma in non-conference play. Otherwise, Carney’s team was competitive most weeks and 
should be again this season.
John Hauser  Ohio
“New” head coach is a loose term here, as Hauser was the assistant head coach and DC for the Bobcats before HC Brian 
Smith was placed on leave at the end of the regular season. There’s something to be said about continuity in college 
football in 2026 and Hauser follows Smith and Tim Albin, who were both on the staffs of their predecessors. Hauser has 
spent his entire FBS career in the MAC and is plenty familiar with the Buckeye State as a Columbus native and Wittenberg 
University grad, so he should be able to keep getting good in-house talent from a top-10, borderline top-five, state for high 
school football.
Alonzo Carter  Sacramento State
Two things first… Yes, Sacramento State is an FBS team now. And, yes, they are in the MAC. Carter is a Brent Brennan 
disciple in some respects, though he was already coaching high school ball when Brennan was playing for UCLA. Carter 
was on Brennan’s staffs at both San Jose State and Arizona, serving most recently as the assistant head coach and running 
backs coach. He hasn’t been a head coach since 2016 at Contra Costa Junior College. Given the wild commitment to 
the basketball team with head coach Mike Bibby and GM Shaquille O’Neal, Carter, a one-time backup dancer for MC 
Hammer, seems like an odd hire by comparison. However, the Oakland native is said to be a great mentor and resource 
for students.
Mike Jacobs  Toledo
Jacobs, a Maumee native from northwestern Ohio, worked his way up the hard way, serving as the head coach at Division 
II Notre Dame College (OH) and Lenoir-Rhyne before getting an opportunity in the FCS ranks at Mercer. It is kind of 
rare to see a head coach with this sort of path, as many have been coordinators or position coaches at the FBS level, and 
usually from a P4 school at some point. Jacobs is 94-23 in his career as a head coach and took Mercer to the FCS Playoffs 
in back-to-back seasons. Mercer had one of the nation’s best defenses in 2024 and the offense racked up nearly 500 yards 
per game in 2025. Given Candle’s inability to do what needs to be done as a favorite, this could end up being quite the 
upgrade.
MAC
