35
2026 VSiN COLLEGE FOOTBALL BETTING GUIDE
Rob Harley  Northern Illinois
If Sacramento State being in the MAC wasn’t enough of a mind-eff, Northern Illinois is a member of the retooled 
Mountain West. Harley was the DC last season under Thomas Hammock and is the interim HC for this season after 
Hammock took a job with the Seahawks. Harley is a Pat Narduzzi disciple and also was a GA under Narduzzi and Mark 
Dantonio for two years. The 43-year-old has never been a head coach, and finds himself in a weird situation to say the 
least with the travel, games at elevation, and the transfer portal opening up when Hammock left in February.
Jim Mora  Colorado State
Let’s all take a second and come to terms with the fact that Colorado State is now in the Pac-12…Alright, now let’s think 
about Mora, who got a second kick at the college coaching can at UConn and did extremely well with it. The football lifer 
was 27-23 in Storrs with back-to-back nine-win seasons, which is no small feat. His first four seasons at UCLA were pretty 
good, but the bottom fell out quickly. To provide some continuity, Mora kept interim HC Tyson Summers in his previous 
DC role. The Rams haven’t won a bowl game since 2013 and have had a winning record just once since 2017. Perhaps 
Mora’s previous stops are examples of what he can do at schools with lowered expectations, much like this one.
JaMarcus Shephard  Oregon State
Going the defensive route didn’t work, so Oregon State has gone in the other direction. Tyler Bray really walked into 
a brutal situation after Jonathan Smith left, as the Beavers floated around like a feather in the wind when the Pac-12 
dissolved. They played as a Pac-12 team in name only, mostly facing a Mountain West schedule and even played fellow 
orphan Washington State twice last season. Bray went 5-14 and now Shephard, a longtime wide receivers coach, most 
recently with Kalen DeBoer at both Washington and Alabama, takes the reins. Like Washington State, Oregon State should 
be ready to invest in the program with a conference to call home again, but Shephard has never been more than a co-OC/
assistant head coach and now is a head coach looking to install a dramatically different offense.
Kirby Moore  Washington State
Moore, whose time at Boise State crossed over with brother Kellen, who has a slightly more high-profile job, is on the fast 
track. The 35-year-old isn’t coaching the Saints like his 37-year-old brother, but three years of calling plays at Missouri 
and one at Fresno State now has him in a head coaching role. Grabbing a branch of the Chris Petersen, Kalen DeBoer, 
Eli Drinkwitz coaching tree is far from a bad idea, but he’s going to need to grow into the role with a program that hasn’t 
really been investing in its roster while being a Pac-12 orphan with Mountain West guardianship. Now back in the Pac-12, 
the program will invest in the head coach and the roster all at once and that will probably take some time.
PAC  12     MOUNTAIN  WEST
