36
2026 VSiN COLLEGE FOOTBALL BETTING GUIDE
Ryan Silverfield  Arkansas
After a decade at Memphis, Silverfield packed up the family and took I-40 to I-49 for probably the only SEC opportunity 
he was ever going to get. It would be unfair to call him the last person at the bar when the “ugly lights” came on, but AD 
Hunter Yurachek had two strikes in the count and had to put a ball in play. Silverfield was seemingly the bronze medalist 
behind Jon Sumrall and Alex Golesh, and you can see why. He inherited a good program and a NIL budget filled by FedEx 
at Memphis and never won the conference. The irony is not lost on me that the Razorbacks went from an OL coach in 
Sam Pittman to another OL coach in Silverfield, as they look to finish the season ranked for just the second time since 
2011.
Alex Golesh  Auburn
You can see what Auburn was thinking here, as the Tigers have scored just 18.5 and 19.1 PPG against SEC opponents 
over the last two seasons. Golesh is an offensive guy through and through, spending his entire collegiate coaching career 
on that side of the ball. After four seasons under Matt Campbell and three under Josh Heupel, Golesh got his first HC 
opportunity at South Florida and went 23-15 before taking the Auburn gig. Given that the defense is in the hands of 
veterans D.J. Durkin and Tim Banks, Golesh’s chief objective is to find points and he’s done that pretty much everywhere 
he’s been. His first-year success will be contingent on how the USF transfers adapt to P4 life, including QB Byrum Brown.
Jon Sumrall  Florida
Sumrall’s trajectory is becoming increasingly common in college football. The 43-year-old played four years at Kentucky, 
where he then served as a grad assistant from 2005-06 before getting a FCS gig at San Diego in his mid-20s. From there, he 
moved up the ranks, eventually serving as the co-DC at Kentucky before two seasons as the head coach at Troy and two at 
Tulane. Having immediate success adds commas to your bank account in CFB and that’s the case for Sumrall, who made 
the CFP with Tulane in 2024 and has won at least 11 games in three of his four seasons as a HC. While he inherited a mess 
at Troy from Chip Lindsey, he inherited a strong foundation at Tulane thanks to Willie Fritz. Florida, one of the sport’s 
premier programs, could be classified as somewhere in between, so we’ll see how long it takes Sumrall to bring them 
back to relevance.
Will Stein  Kentucky
Personally, I really like this hire, especially when paired with a strong DC grab in Jay Bateman. Stein, the mastermind of 
the Oregon offense the last three seasons, is a Louisville native and played QB there from 2008-12. Props to the Kentucky 
athletic department for realizing that the program needs to modernize offensively. What Mark Stoops did, including eight 
straight bowl game appearances from 2016-23, was very impressive with the team’s tenacious defense and ball-control 
offense, but for Kentucky to take the leap into being a legitimate contender, a more dynamic offense will be required, 
especially in the SEC. Former Dan Lanning OC Kenny Dillingham has done pretty well at Arizona State, but the Sun Devils 
were 3-9 in his first season as he tore the team down to the studs. Something to keep in mind with Stein.
Lane Kiffin  LSU
The Lane Train made a lot of noise leaving Oxford for Baton Rouge, as he bailed on his College Football Playoff squad to 
set things in motion with the Tigers. There are a lot of must-see games during the CFB season - it’s possible that none of 
them will top September 19, when LSU visits Ole Miss. Lane is one of the most recognizable cast members in the college 
football soap opera, but he’s also a guy who recruited at an obscene level and led a collective 32-6 run over his final three 
seasons with the Rebels. Does his move to LSU conjure up memories of his ill-fated stint at USC? Probably, based on 
the blue blood running through the veins of both institutions. But we cannot argue that Kiffin plays an exciting style of 
football and gets dudes who can ball out on both sides. Just what LSU needs.
Pete Golding  Mississippi
This was a tough situation for AD Keith Carter. The players rallied around Golding amidst the made-for-TV drama of Lane 
Kiffin’s exit. At the same time, with Kiffin’s offensive reputation and penchant for recruiting, including the JUCO ranks, it 
is hard not to feel underwhelmed about Golding. That said, the Rebels played extremely well in the CFP, beating Tulane 
and Georgia before falling short to Miami. Golding has also worked under now-Browns head coach Todd Monken at 
Southern Miss, new Arkansas DC Ron Roberts at SE Louisiana, Frank Wilson at UTSA, Nick Saban at Alabama, and Kiffin. 
SEC
