37
2026 VSiN COLLEGE FOOTBALL BETTING GUIDE
SUN  BELT
Ryan Beard  Coastal Carolina
After overseeing Missouri State’s transition from FCS to FBS, Beard took the Bears to a bowl game in their first season 
as a member of Conference USA. He didn’t coach in it, as Coastal Carolina came calling and he hit the ground running 
in Conway. Beard, who is Bobby Petrino’s son-in-law, was at Missouri State for six seasons, first as the DC under Petrino 
and then as the head coach when Petrino went to be the OC at Texas A&M. Beard, who was a defensive back at Western 
Kentucky, has been very successful in getting his players to get to the quarterback. Coastal Carolina only had 19 sacks last 
season and their 80 sack yards were the seventh-fewest. Just some food for thought.
Billy Napier  James Madison
Following up Curt Cignetti and Bob Chesney was going to be an unenviable task for anybody, but it’s “Sun Belt Billy” 
who gets the chance. Look, his stint in Gainesville was an abject disaster, but he was really good at Louisiana, winning 
40 games in four seasons. He inherited a solid foundation from Mark Hudspeth and gets the same here with the Dukes. 
Florida is a different beast and some guys just aren’t built for that burden. If JMU struggles, it’ll likely be less about Napier 
and more about the mass exodus of talent over the last two seasons.
Blake Anderson  Southern Miss
Anderson’s second stint at Southern Miss was to serve as the OC and QB coach, but Charles Huff left for Memphis and the 
Golden Eagles opted to keep it in-house with Anderson. He’s got a decade of FBS coaching experience, but also had an 
unceremonious departure from Utah State and didn’t coach in 2024. He took Arkansas State to new heights from 2014-20 
and had an 11-win season at Utah State to start his tenure, but this is a fairly uninspiring hire in Hattiesburg. He’s won at 
both stops and has done so while navigating some very difficult and tragic family circumstances, so we’ll see how this stop 
goes.
Blake Anderson
