38
2026 VSiN COLLEGE FOOTBALL BETTING GUIDE
If the Curt Cignetti story was a Disney movie, it would be mocked as 
absurd and completely unrealistic. A coach who waited several years 
for his first big shot finally gets it with the losingest program in college 
football history, and Indiana goes 16-0 to win the national championship 
in his second season.
“Hoosiers” was a classic movie based on a true high school basketball 
Cinderella story in the 1950s, and Cignetti basically scripted the 
sequel.
“What if I told you at the end of the 2023 season that Indiana would 
have an undefeated national champion in two years? There’s no chance 
anyone would have believed me,” DraftKings oddsmaker Matt Grill said. 
“You would say there’s absolutely no way in hell that could happen. It 
was a forgotten program. I still don’t know how he did it.”
Indiana lost its 2023 season finale at Purdue to finish 3-9. In their history, 
the Hoosiers never had a 10-win season and owned only three bowl 
wins. In two years in Bloomington, Cignetti has a 27-2 record. Last year, 
he upset Ohio State to win the Big Ten championship before blowing out 
Alabama in the Rose Bowl and Oregon in the Peach Bowl on the way to a 
victory over Miami for the national title.
“Cignetti is amazing,” Grill said. “I think Indiana is going to keep it 
going, but pretty much no one is betting Indiana.”
Ohio State, Notre Dame and Texas are attracting a majority of the 
affection as college football futures action heats up in Nevada and across 
the country. In their bid for a repeat, the Hoosiers are getting a cold 
shoulder from the betting public at most books. Indiana is posted at 10-1 
odds as the fifth choice on the board at Circa Sports.
“Texas is currently the favorite to win the title, though it didn’t open 
that way, and it’s because we’ve taken sharp action on them,” Circa vice 
president of operations Mike Palm said. “We took our sharpest limit bet 
on Texas at +750.”
The limit bet on Longhorns was for $10,000, Palm said. Texas is the +650 
favorites at Circa, followed by Ohio State (+700), Notre Dame (+725), 
Oregon (+730) and Georgia (+950).
“We’ve seen a ton of public interest in Notre Dame and Oregon — those 
are our two biggest realistic liabilities,” Palm said.
Boomer’s Sportsbook director Nick Bogdanovich said the public is 
“betting Notre Dame with both hands,” driving the Fighting Irish from 
8-1 to 6-1 odds.
Notre Dame started last season 0-2, losing games to Miami and Texas 
A&M by a total of four points, and finished 10-2. The Irish were 
controversially excluded from the 12-team College Football Playoff and 
are expected to stage a revenge tour behind coach Marcus Freeman and 
a veteran team headlined by sophomore quarterback CJ Carr.
“Notre Dame should be able to navigate this schedule to an undefeated 
regular season,” Palm said. “Whether the Irish are good enough to beat 
Texas and Ohio State is a different question.”
Two years ago, the Irish eliminated Indiana and Cignetti in the first 
round of the CFP and fell to Ohio State in the national title game. The 
Buckeyes are currently the +600 favorites at DraftKings, ahead of Notre 
Dame at +650.
“We took a lot of money on Notre Dame early when we opened 10-1,” 
Grill said. “I’ve got Ohio State as my No. 1 team right now.”
Grill’s power ratings show Notre Dame and Indiana tied at No. 2, 
followed by Oregon, Georgia, Texas, Texas Tech, Miami, Texas A&M and 
Alabama. Grill said he’s not sold on the Longhorns and quarterback Arch 
Manning, who was overhyped entering last season.
“I’m sure I’ve got a similar Top 10 to about everyone else out there,” Grill 
said. “The potential is there with Texas. It’s an embarrassment of riches. 
If Arch is improved and slinging it, they could be phenomenal. But Texas 
disappoints every year for how long now?”
Texas hosts Ohio State on Sept. 12 in one of the season’s most pivotal 
games. Manning was a bust in the teams’ season opener a year ago, 
when the Buckeyes won 14-7. In addition to the game at Texas, the 
Buckeyes will face road tests against Indiana, Iowa and USC as part of a 
grueling schedule.
“My top three teams are Ohio State, Oregon and Notre Dame,” South 
Point sportsbook director Chris Andrews said. “I know we have action 
on those three, plus USC.”
With coach Lincoln Riley under pressure entering his fifth year, the 
Trojans are 35-1 longshots at DraftKings. USC hosts Oregon in late 
September, hosts Ohio State in late October and plays at Indiana on Nov. 
14.
Aside from Cignetti, the coach who’s probably talked about the most in 
the media is Lane Kiffin, who ditched Mississippi prior to the CFP and 
took the LSU job. The Tigers are a 16-1 shot at Circa.
“We’ve seen sharp interest in LSU, and USC has been bet from 50-1 down 
to 30-1,” Palm said.
Not everyone believes in and roots for Kiffin, of course, and his childish 
diva act gets annoying. The most action the Boomer’s book has seen 
in the Yes/No playoff market, Bogdanovich said, is on LSU to miss the 
playoffs at -125.
Texas and Georgia are the SEC’s best bets to break the Big Ten’s three-
year championship reign strung together by Michigan, Ohio State 
and Indiana. The Hoosiers must replace Heisman Trophy-winning 
quarterback Fernando Mendoza, and the Heisman market is generating 
action all over the board with a surplus of marquee QBs this season. At 
DraftKings, Carr is the Heisman favorite at +700 and Manning is the +800 
second choice.
“The expanded playoff certainly creates more futures action in Yes/No 
playoffs as well as to win the national championship,” Palm said. “The 
expansion to 12 teams tripled the handle in those markets. I don’t want 
to see more than 16 teams. I actually think 12 is a very practical number, 
and beyond 16 will include too many teams with no chance of winning 
the title.”
Not long ago, before Cignetti showed up and changed everything, 
Indiana seemed to be a team with no shot of winning a championship.
nobody believed then.
nobody’s betting now.
by Matt Youmans
