39
2026 VSiN COLLEGE FOOTBALL BETTING GUIDE
The recent history of the Heisman Trophy suggests it’s become 
a quarterback’s award. Travis Hunter, a rare two-way superstar, 
broke the mold in 2024, but he’s the exception — only five non-
quarterbacks have won since 2000. That trend has only intensified 
since college football’s NIL era officially kicked off in July 2021. 
Since NIL money started flowing openly, four of the last five 
winners have been quarterbacks.
There’s a newer wrinkle worth watching, though: three of the 
last four winners have been hired guns. Caleb Williams, Jayden 
Daniels, and Fernando Mendoza all won after transferring in 
from other power programs, and that’s a pattern to keep in mind 
entering the 2026 season.
One more thing to file away: the preseason betting favorite rarely 
actually wins. Depending on the book, CJ Carr and Arch Manning 
currently top the oddsboard. Both enter the new season with 
outrageous hype, and it’s warranted given what we saw from them 
last season. Still, if either one ends up hoisting the trophy, it’ll mark 
the first time since 2014 that the preseason favorite has won.
Considering all of that, let’s get into some picks to win the Heisman 
Trophy in 2026. Here are four of my favorites, but I’ll also mention 
that I’m closely monitoring Alabama’s quarterback competition 
between Keelon Russell and Austin Mack. 
DARIAN MENSAH
MIAMI (12-1) 
Nobody’s raiding the portal quite like Mario Cristobal. With 
the help of offensive guru Shannon Dawson, Miami has landed 
Cam Ward, Carson Beck, and now Mensah in the portal era. The 
Hurricanes helped Ward become the No. 1 pick in the 2025 NFL 
Draft, as he was undeniable after throwing for 4,313 yards with 39 
touchdowns and only seven picks in his final college season. Beck 
didn’t go in the first round of the 2026 NFL Draft, but he was picked 
in the third after throwing for 3,813 yards and 30 touchdowns. Now 
it’s Mensah’s turn to go to work in this quarterback-friendly system.
Mensah arguably arrives in Coral Gables as a more polished player 
than Ward and Beck were at the same stage. Last season, despite 
being surrounded by underwhelming talent, Mensah threw for 3,973 
yards with 34 touchdowns and only six interceptions. He also posted a 
PFF passer grade of 85.0. Mensah is extremely dangerous throwing to 
every part of the field, makes big-time throws in the face of pressure, 
and has played in some massive games. He’s the total package.
Mensah now gets to play for one of the biggest brands in football, and 
he’ll be surrounded by weapons. Malachi Toney was one of the best 
players in college football last season, Cooper Barkate was Mensah’s 
top receiver at Duke, and Miami has high hopes for 6-foot-4 sophomore 
Joshua Moore. Mensah will also be working behind a better offensive 
line than he had in either of his previous two college seasons.
There’s a real chance Mensah puts up ridiculous numbers for a 
Hurricanes team that should win double-digit games and reach the 
College Football Playoff. That makes him the best of the chalkier 
options when you’re looking at the Heisman Trophy odds.
JOHN MATEER
OKLAHOMA (25-1)
It’s a little surprising to see Mateer available at 25-1 odds. Early 
last season, Mateer looked like he was on his way to winning the 
Heisman Trophy. Through four games, he was putting up absurd 
numbers as both a thrower and a runner. But a broken thumb on 
his throwing hand changed everything. Mateer came back and 
threw three interceptions against Texas on October 11, and it felt 
like he was never the same quarterback afterward.
Mateer enters the 2026 season at full strength. That means he should 
hit the ground running, even with Oklahoma playing a difficult 
schedule. Mateer is back in Ben Arbuckle’s offense, which he’s 
mastered at this point. He also has an excellent group of pass-catching 
options and should be operating behind an improved offensive line.
Rushing upside has always mattered when it comes to this award, 
and that gives Mateer something other candidates don’t have. Two 
years ago, Mateer rushed for 826 yards and 15 touchdowns for 
Washington State. He might not have that in him in the SEC, but his 
legs will still be a major factor for the Sooners.
With so many showcase games on the schedule — at Michigan, at 
Georgia, vs. Texas, vs. Ole Miss, vs. Texas A&M — Mateer has a real 
chance to rack up Heisman moments. Oklahoma just needs the 
slightest bit of team success to put him back in the conversation. 
MARCEL REED
TEXAS A&M (30-1) 
Reed didn’t receive any votes for this award last season, but he wasn’t 
far off from having a seat at the table. Reed threw for 3,169 yards 
with 25 touchdowns, rushed for 493 yards and six scores, and was 
the drink-stirrer for one of the best teams in college football. With 
another year of experience, things are likely to ramp up a little.
Texas A&M will have a new offensive coordinator in Holmon 
Wiggins, but he was the wide receivers coach and co-offensive 
coordinator last season. That means this offense shouldn’t change 
too much, and it’s one Reed is fully comfortable with. The Aggies 
don’t ask too much of him as a passer, but he’s capable of making 
most throws. There’s also room for improvisation, and that’s where 
Reed’s elite rushing ability shows up.
Reed is going to have a very good wide receiver group this season, 
with Mario Craver, a first-team All-SEC performer last year, leading 
the pack. He’s also going to have a large offensive line blocking for 
him. Reed just needs to cut down on his interceptions, as the 12 
he threw in 2025 were unacceptable. Reed also happened to throw 
eight of those in his final five games, meaning he made his biggest 
mistakes in the biggest games.
With one more year of seasoning, and improved decision-making, 
Reed should make a real run at the Heisman. At the very least, 
a healthy Reed should make a strong early case, presenting 
opportunities to monetize a ticket later on. If Texas A&M can pick up a 
road win over LSU on September 26, there’s a good chance the Aggies 
will be 7-0 heading into a road game against Alabama on October 24.
DREW MESTEMAKER
OKLAHOMA STATE (75-1) 
Mestemaker led all of FBS in passing yards last year, throwing for 
4,379 yards, 34 touchdowns, and nine interceptions in a masterful 
freshman season. He then decided to follow head coach Eric 
Morris from North Texas to Oklahoma State, where he’ll be playing 
alongside several of his former teammates.
Mestemaker will have to adjust to a significant jump in 
competition, facing strong Big 12 defenses after seeing nothing but 
soft AAC units. Still, Mestemaker should be able to handle it. He’s a 
future first-round pick playing behind a better offensive line, he has 
serious talent at the skill positions, and he knows this offense like 
the back of his hand.
It’s just hard to imagine this being anything but a massive season for 
Mestemaker, but grabbing him means hoping for some team success 
at Oklahoma State. That’s the main concern here. The Cowboys are 
going to be excellent offensively, but will the defense be able to get 
off the field? The lineup on the defensive side of the ball features only 
four players with starting experience, so new defensive coordinator 
Skyler Cassity will be banking on a bunch of unknown commodities.
Making the College Football Playoff isn’t a requirement for Heisman 
contention, but Mestemaker probably needs to win eight or so 
games to really win voters over. That might be unlikely in Year 1, 
but he’s worth a flier at 75-1.
VALUE IN THE HEISMAN RACE
by Zach Cohen
