45
2026 VSiN COLLEGE FOOTBALL BETTING GUIDE
A year ago, Fernando Mendoza did not top 
any preseason lists that ranked the elite 
quarterbacks in college football, and that 
turned out to be a big miss by many analysts. 
Mendoza managed to outplay several other 
overhyped quarterbacks en route to winning 
the Heisman Trophy, leading Indiana to the 
national championship and becoming the No. 
1 pick in the NFL Draft.
The importance of the quarterback to a team’s 
success is obvious, but scouting the position 
accurately is not 
always easy.
In 2024, a record 
six quarterbacks 
were selected 
in the first 
round of the 
draft, including 
the first three 
overall picks. 
Now, after back-
to-back down 
years at the 
position, some 
analysts believe 
the 2027 draft 
could challenge 
the first-round 
record.
Time will tell, but this has the potential to 
be “The Year of the Quarterback” in college 
football. While names like Manning, Chambliss 
and Carr are certain to garner their share of 
headlines during the upcoming season, the 
depth of this year’s class is what sets it apart.
Without further ado, this is how I rank the top 
quarterbacks entering this season.
2. TRINIDAD CHAMBLISS, OLE MISS
Was there a better single-game performance 
in 2025 than the masterpiece turned in by 
Chambliss in the Rebels’ 39-34 CFP quarterfinal 
win over Georgia? Eluding would-be Dawg 
defenders play after play, the Ferris State transfer 
threw for 362 yards against one of the nation’s 
stingiest stop units. Currently listed at 15-1 to win 
the Heisman, one could argue Chambliss is the 
best betting option on the board.
3. CJ CARR, NOTRE DAME
Manning and Chambliss share top billing, but it 
would be no surprise if Carr hoisted the hardware 
in Manhattan come the second Saturday in 
December. Draft analyst Todd McShay hailed 
Carr as the MVP at the recent Manning Passing 
Academy, proclaiming “it wasn’t even close.” 
The Irish are legitimate national championship 
contenders, so Carr’s possibilities for individual 
and team accolades seem endless.
4. DANTE MOORE, OREGON
After struggling as a true freshman at UCLA and 
then sitting behind Dillon Gabriel at Oregon as 
a sophomore, the Detroit native showed why 
he was one of the top recruits in the Class of 
2023, leading the Ducks to the CFP semifinals 
last season. Moore was projected by some as a 
potential top-five selection in this past April’s 
draft, but he opted to return to school.
5. GUNNER STOCKTON, GEORGIA
Despite an NIL deal reportedly north of $1 
million, Stockton drives a hand-me-down 1984 
Ford F-150 pickup gifted by his grandfather 
with over 300,000 miles. Like his truck, he’s 
an old-school throwback who may not throw 
the prettiest ball yet competes with grit and 
comes through in clutch moments.
6. JULIAN SAYIN, OHIO STATE
With college football’s top pass catcher, 
Jeremiah Smith, and an embarrassment of 
other riches at his disposal, Sayin is a solid 
bet to post Heisman-worthy numbers in his 
second season as the Buckeyes’ starter. Games 
against Texas, Indiana, USC, Oregon and 
Michigan certainly provide the platform to 
attract the voters’ attention. At a double-digit 
price (12-1 at Circa), Sayin may be worth a 
look in the Heisman market.
7. JOHN MATEER, OKLAHOMA
Opinions are mixed on Mateer, who was 
hindered by a bum thumb on his throwing 
hand throughout much of the 2025 campaign. 
Supporters say he’s among the nation’s elite at his 
position, while detractors want more evidence 
against top-shelf opposition. The tough Texan is a 
true dual threat, having rushed for 847 yards and 
15 TDs in 2024 at Washington State.
8. LANORRIS SELLERS, SOUTH CAROLINA
Gamecock quarterbacks have been sacked 
more than 40 times in each of the past three 
seasons. With more experience up front, the 
dynamic Sellers could shine with additional 
time to operate. At 6-3 and 245 pounders, 
Sellers is a load to bring down as evidenced 
by his 674 rushing yards in 2024. For those 
dreaming of a bigger Heisman payout, Sellers 
is currently 50-1 at the Westgate SuperBook.
9. SAM LEAVITT, LSU
After guiding Arizona State to the first-ever 
12-team CFP in 2024, Leavitt’s production 
dipped last season, primarily because of a 
foot injury which shortened his season by five 
games. The dual-threat Leavitt might not have 
a Cam Skattebo in his arsenal, but the Tigers’ 
receivers may be among the nation’s finest 
after scoring big in the portal.
10. DARIAN MENSAH, MIAMI
Coming out of St. Joseph High School in Santa 
Maria, Calif., Mensah was a largely-ignored 
two-star prospect who ultimately ended up with 
just two offers: Tulane and Idaho State. After 
spending one season each at Tulane and Duke, 
Mensah (56 career passing TDs) steps into the 
South Beach spotlight as he attempts to guide 
the Hurricanes back to the playoff.
11. BEAR 
BACHMEIER, 
BYU
As a true 
freshman, 
Bachmeier 
threw for 3,000 
yards or more, 
rushed for 
500 or more, 
accounted for 
at least 25 TDs, 
and had 10 or 
fewer turnovers, 
becoming only 
the 19th power 
conference 
quarterback to 
accomplish that 
feat in the past 20 
years. With a full offseason to sharpen his skills, 
Bachmeier is an intriguing Heisman long shot at 
80/1 at Westgate.
12. MARCEL REED, TEXAS A&M
At his best, Reed can beat opponents with his 
arm (more than 5,000 yards passing across 
the past two seasons) and legs (more than 
1,000 yards rushing during the same term). At 
his worst, the Nashville product has turned 
the ball over 21 times in 21 career starts - 
including a total of five in back-to-back losses 
to Texas and Miami to end the 2025 season.
13. JAYDEN MAIAVA, USC
The Honolulu native began his career at 
UNLV, but a stellar freshman season there in 
2023 (almost 3,100 yards passing) caught the 
eye of Lincoln Riley and others. Maiava has a 
big arm, but needs to protect the football (26 
interceptions in three seasons) and perform 
better on the road. If he does those things 
and new receivers emerge, he could be a dark 
horse contender for national honors.
14. BYRUM BROWN, AUBURN
The 6-foot-3, 232-pound dual-threat Brown had 
better rushing (1,008 yards) and passing (3,158 
yards) numbers at South Florida last season 
than Mateer did at Washington State in 2024. If 
Brown remains healthy, the Tigers could throw 
a wrench in someone’s playoff plans.
15. CJ BAILEY, NORTH CAROLINA STATE
At 6-foot-6 with a quick release and big arm, 
Bailey has certainly attracted the attention of 
NFL scouts. With 22 starts under his belt in 
just two years on campus - if he can refine his 
mechanics and sharpen his accuracy - it’s not 
out of the question that he could ultimately 
play his way into the first round of the draft.
THE YEAR of the quarterback
by Paul Stone
1. ARCH MANNING, TEXAS
Perhaps the most polarizing figure in all of college sports, 
Manning began the 2025 season as the Heisman favorite, but 
he sputtered in September and quickly fell from grace. From 
October on, however, the nephew of two former Super Bowl 
MVPs showcased his talents, throwing for 2,012 yards in the 
season’s final eight games, while accounting for 21 touchdowns 
against just three turnovers during that span. Expect to see the 
Longhorns utilize Manning more in the running game after his 
155-yard rushing outburst against Michigan in the Citrus Bowl.
“
“
