46
2026 VSiN COLLEGE FOOTBALL BETTING GUIDE
Putting together my college football power ratings for the 2026 
season involves analyzing the returning players/coaches for 
the teams, making adjustments based on last year’s finish and 
the current perception of teams, and also ensuring I have not 
assumed anything out of the window for normalcy for each 
team’s recent history or conference strength. That last point has 
become a bigger challenge each passing year as some teams 
completely revamp their rosters through the transfer portal.
Only 52 teams are returning their starting quarterbacks from 
last season, and several of the country’s most prominent teams 
from a year ago are not, most notably title game participants 
Indiana and Miami (FL). If you’re thinking the coaching 
carousel was significant in the offseason, the 33 changes to 
programs this season in that regard are a fairly high number.
Last year, of the five teams from the Power Four (or 
Independent) that I projected to win 10+ games in this same 
exercise, only one of them made the CFP. However, the year 
before, four of the five made up the four semifinal teams. For 
2026, there are seven teams that are projected to win 10+ games, 
and that group is Notre Dame (11.2), Texas Tech (10.7), Oregon 
(10.3), Indiana (10.2), Miami (FL) (10.1), Ohio State (10.0) and 
Georgia (10.0). As you look at the conference overview pages, 
you’ll see other teams such as Penn State, Texas, and BYU that 
could join those frontrunners.
I’ve taken my adjusted power numbers for 2026 and run them 
against the complete schedule to project the season standings. 
You will also find a listing of all 138 FBS teams and their 
schedules, with my projected power ratings lines for each game.
Before unleashing the projections, however, let’s look at some of 
the highlights from the analysis:
•	
According to my figures, after two straight seasons 
of Florida playing the toughest schedule nationally, 
Texas takes over for 2026, at least as it stands now. The 
Longhorns are ranked just ahead of Oklahoma, Kentucky, 
Mississippi State, and Arkansas in that regard, all SEC 
teams. My projections have the Longhorns finishing at 
9-3 in the regular season, but I could easily be talked into 
more, as I believe they are a legit national title contender. 
The schedules of the other four SEC teams on the list are 
mostly due to conference opponents. The first non-SEC 
team on the list is Michigan at No. 6. 
•	
The “easiest” schedule this season belongs to UMass, 
who unseats Liberty for that honor after the Flames 
held the designation for the last three seasons. The 
Minutemen’s 2026 opponents average a 26.21 power 
rating. To put that in perspective, it would be like playing 
a team at Bowling Green’s level every week for an entire 
season. Even still, my numbers call for them to go just 
3.4-8.6 this season. However, even with an easier slate 
last season, UMass went 0-12. In terms of other weak 
schedules, Buffalo, Sacramento State, and Ohio, all other 
MAC teams as well, check in at Nos. 2-4. The first non-
MAC team on the weak schedule list is Jacksonville State, 
at No. 5, out of Conference USA. For the record, Liberty 
is the No. 6. 
•	
Notre Dame has the highest win projection of any team, 
with 11.2, a half win better than Texas Tech (10.7). Oregon 
(10.3), Indiana (10.2), and Miami (FL) (10.1) round out the 
top five. The only other double-digit win projections go to 
Ohio State and Georgia. 
•	
Assuming the projections play out accurately, besides 
Texas Tech, Oregon, Indiana, Miami (FL), and Ohio State 
the other Power Four conference teams that would be 
expected to contend for a spot in the College Football 
Playoff this year would be Georgia, Texas, Penn State, BYU, 
and perhaps SMU or Utah. All of those teams are expected 
to win 8.9 or more regular-season games, according to my 
projections. Some of the intriguing “longshot” contenders 
could include Alabama, Texas A&M, LSU, and USC. 
•	
Boise State (9.2), James Madison (9.1), UNLV (9.0), and 
Navy (8.5), and New Mexico (8.5) have the highest 
projected win totals among the Group of Six teams, 
although each faces an early test or two that might prevent 
them from going undefeated and challenging for the 
coveted CFP spot. 
•	
In terms of teams expected to improve from last season, 
either by an enhanced power rating or projected wins 
compared to last regular season, Oklahoma State (+14) and 
Virginia Tech (+10) are the two teams I have with double-
digit power rating increases. In terms of the biggest win 
total gains expected for this season, the projections call for 
OSU (+4.7), VT (+4.3), and Liberty (+4.1) to all win at least 
four games more than a season ago. 
•	
There are a crazy number of eight teams that drop by 10 
points or more in my power ratings for the 2026 preseason 
when compared to last year’s finish. The biggest loser, 
if you will, is North Texas, who falls by a huge 14-point 
downgrade. It’s not hard to understand why when you 
realize that new head coach Neal Brown is taking over 
virtually a brand-new team, one with no starter back from 
the 2025 group that went 12-2 and scored 45.1 PPG. 
•	
Other big drops belong with James Madison (-12.5) and 
Tulane (-11.5), two other complete rebuilds for new 
coaches. The worst drops among P4 programs belong to 
Vanderbilt (-10.5) and Iowa State (-10). 
•	
In terms of biggest win total declines compared to the 2025 
regular season, you’ll find North Texas (-5.1), North Dakota 
State (-4.0), Connecticut (-3.7), and Vanderbilt (-3.6) at the 
top of the list. Perhaps the most interesting team among 
that group is NDSU, who moves up to FBS for the first 
time and figures to see better and more consistent tough 
competition on a weekly basis in the Mountain West. 
•	
In terms of the projections and how they correlate to the 
Season Win Totals offered up at DraftKings, here are the 
biggest differences. Teams expected to win more games 
than their DK win props include Boise State (+1.7), UNLV 
(+1.5), Arkansas State (+1.3), Miami (OH) (+1.3), Georgia 
Southern (+1.3), Western Kentucky (+1.2), and Navy (+1.0) 
as the teams exceeding a 1.0 difference. The Broncos +1.7 
difference represents one of the biggest I’ve ever had in 
this exercise, and I even double- and triple-checked the 
numbers to be sure. I think the oddsmakers are giving a bit 
too much credit to the strength of the new Pac-12, and in 
my opinion, BSU is the obvious favorite. I guess the same 
goes for the Runnin’ Rebels, who figure to benefit greatly 
from Boise leaving the Mountain West. 
•	
Teams expected to fall short of their season win props 
by the biggest margins include Northern Illinois (-1.1), 
Georgia State (-1.0), Florida (-0.9), Sam Houston State (-0.8), 
and Cal (-0.8). Interestingly, Northern Illinois makes a 
jump in conference strength by moving from the MAC to 
the Mountain West. Also, Florida gets a new head coach 
in Jon Sumrall, who seems to have the enthusiasm meter 
pegged, but perhaps not the roster yet to compete in what 
looks like a very strong and balanced SEC. In general, I’m 
not a fan of big conference teams making regular coaching 
changes when it appears some progress is being made, as 
it sets the program back usually.
Throughout this year’s Guide, you will find my projected 
standings for each of the conferences. The teams are sorted by 
CONFERENCE WINS. You will also find their season win total 
from DraftKings, their 2026 Steve Makinen Power Rating, Home 
and Road Field Ratings, Schedule Strength & National Ranking, 
plus their overall & conference record projections.
STEVE MAKINEN’S 2026 COLLEGE FOOTBALL POWER RATING PROJECTIONS
by Steve Makinen
